User Manual for Designated Officers – for making entries against Section-D on ERC portal and
                               viewing section-wise details

 1. After successful login into FoSCoS, Click on Eat Right Challenge 3 tab available on the
    Dashboard




 2. After clicking on ‘Eat Right Challenge 3’ tab, the user will be redirected to ERC Dashboard

 3. Eat Right Challenge 3 Dashboard

     You will be redirected to ERC 3 dashboard, wherein by default the summary sheet will be
     selected. The summary sheet is the sum of data of all the taluks under a DO’s jurisdiction.
     The final score will be based on the values of the summary sheet.




 4. Details of Section A will be automatically fetched from FOSCOS portal
 5. Details of Section B will be automatically fetched from Eat Right India portals
 6. Details of Section C will be automatically fetched from FOSTAC portal
User Manual for Designated Officers – for making entries against Section-D on ERC portal and
                               viewing section-wise details

 7. Details of Section D need to be manually uploaded by the user
       a.




        b. The user will have to switch to the relevant taluk prior uploading the details




        c.   Go to section D and press the upload button against relevant activity
User Manual for Designated Officers – for making entries against Section-D on ERC portal and
                               viewing section-wise details

        d. Enter the requested data and press submit




 8. To again view Section-wise details, Select ‘Summary’ from the dropdown under Taluk
    Section
User Manual for Designated Officers – for making entries against Section-D on ERC portal and
                               viewing section-wise details



 9. Scores and Rankings are updated every night on FoSCoS. To view latest Scores and
    Rankings, Go to FoSCoS Dashboard and click on View ERC Score/Ranking




 10. For reporting any issue pertaining to ERC portal Scores and Ranking, please send it to your
     respective onsite managers through email. Do enclose screenshots of the error /
     discrepancy.
         a. Onsite Manager, NR, ro-northern@fssai.gov.in
         b. Onsite Manager, WR, ro-western@fssai.gov.in
         c. Onsite Manager, ER, ro-eastern@fssai.gov.in
         d. Onsite Manager, SR, ro-southern@fssai.gov.in
