FoRTrace
[Fortified Rice Traceability Application]

User Manual for Food Analysts/Food Laboratories
Lab users can login to the portal and can see the list of samples dispatched from vendors. Once the samples
are received, then acknowledgement can be sent to the respective vendors. After that based on condition of
sample, lab user performs the test and upload the test results and submit the report by clicking on
‘Sample Tested’. If sample condition is not good, Lab user can reject the sample with comments and date
of rejection.

The functionality is as mentioned below:

1.1 Login:
Enter the following url: https://lab-frqms.fssai.gov.in/




                                       Figure 1: Login screen for lab user

The above login screen will be shown.

           Username: Enter a valid username.

           Password: Enter a valid password and click on Login.
User will be navigated to the landing page as shown in Figure 2.
As per the eligibility of the Lab, sample types (Premix samples, FRK samples and Miller samples) will be
shown in the side menu.

In order to navigate this page:
  (i)       Click on Premix to see list of Premix samples in the grid. Click on FRK to see FRK samples.
            Click on Miller to see Miller samples.




                                                                                                    2|Page
                               Figure 2: Lab user view for Premix sample
 (ii)   Click on a particular sample and see the details as shown below.
(iii)   Click on ‘Sample received’ button and enter the date and comments and click on submit button.
        This will send an acknowledgement as received and the stage will be updated as “Test in
        Progress”.




                                  Figure 3: Premix sample details page
(iv)    Confirmation popup will be displayed click on Yes to confirm.
 (v)    Then user can see success notification message, that sample received as shown in below image.




                                                                                               3|Page
                          Figure 4: Success notification message on receiving sample
(vi)       Based on quality and physical condition of the sample, Lab may reject the sample if it is not in a
           condition to be tested. If the condition of sample is good, Lab will perform the test and submit the
           report as mentioned below.

1.2 Adding Lab Test Results:
Expand lab test details and add following details
       (a) Test date: Enter test date
       (b) Performed by: Enter name of person who will perform lab test.
       (c) Enter test data: Iron, folic acid, vitamin B12 in result column and enter test method followed.
       (d) Attachments: User can add attestation report, iron report and any other additional reports also.
After adding test results, click on ‘Sample tested’ to submit the test report to vendor.




             Figure 5: Selecting sample status as tested or rejected after testing (premix lab report)

                                                                                                         4|Page
                                            Figure 6: FRK lab report




                                        Figure 7: Miller lab Report


In the side menu, user can choose the list of samples by category wise such as all samples or samples in lab
or samples sent to lab etc.,




                                                                                                   5|Page
Figure 8: sample tested stage for premix




                                           6|Page
