FoRTrace
[Fortified Rice Traceability Application]

User Manual for Manufacturers of FRK
 A manufacturer of FRK receives premix powder from premix manufacturers and rice flour from
 suppliers/other manufacturers. Using these two ingredients, FRK kernels are manufactured and tested and
 approved FRK kernels will be dispatched to Miller.

 1.1 Process:
 The key functionalities that occur at FRK level is as described below.
     1. There will be 2 roles at FRK vendor level, admin has access to both.
           a. Approver: Who receives Premix lots and acknowledge and verify the lot quality and get
               it tested at lab if required and finally either approve the Lot or reject the lot
           b. User: Who creates Rice flour batches and FRK batches and send sample to lab and
               dispatch the approved batches to Miller.
     2. Addition of Raw Materials into the organization/portal: While procuring the raw materials
        (Rice powder) from suppliers, the details of procurement need to be added in this portal as well.
        These details are used at the time of FRK batch creation. User can choose the list of raw materials
        added as input at the time of Premix batch creation. Similarly, another key raw material (premix
        powder) will be procured from premix vendors. Once the Lot is dispatched from Premix vendor,
        it will be populated to FRK vendor under Lot Dispatched category. After receiving the Lot, the
        approver from FRK Vendor will acknowledge that the lot is received and further, can review the
        lab reports of the premix powder in Lot details page and if lab reports are satisfactory, the lot can
        be approved. If the Lot lab report is not good, the approver can send sample to Lab and get latest
        lab report and based on the report, the lot can be approved or rejected automatically. The rejected
        lots will be sent back to Premix vendor and approved Lots will be used in FRK Batch creation as
        input raw material.
     3. Creation of Batch: Once raw materials are added, user can create a FRK batch where raw
        materials that are used in the batch will be taken as input and a batch will be created in the
        application.
     4. Sending sample to the Lab: After a FRK batch is created, a sample needs to be sent to Lab.
        Once the lab tests are completed, lab report will be auto populated in FRK batch details page. If lab
        result is positive, FRK user can view the updated stage as ‘Batch ready to be dispatched’
        automatically, now FRK user has to add packaging info and dispatch the lot to MILLER
        Manufacturer. If lab report is unsatisfactory, automatically FRK user can view the updated stage
        as ‘Rejected’ and should not be able to send any lot to MILLER manufacturer.
     5. Dispatch: Once the Batch ready to be dispatched, User can prepare packaging bags details in the
        batch details page and dispatch a few/all bags to miller manufacturer.
     6. Acknowledgement from miller Manufacturer: Once dispatched material is received by miller
        manufacturer, they may review lab report, may go for additional lab testing of the FRK and accept
        the material. If lab report is unsatisfactory, automatically that lot is rejected and miller
        manufacturer can send it back to FRK manufacturer.
 The functionality related to FRK manufacturer is described in the next section.


 1.2 Login:
 To log into the system as a FRK admin, go to the “FoSCoS” portal by using the link: https://FoSCoS.fssai.gov.in/

A FoSCoS Home page will be displayed as shown in the figure below.
                                   Figure 1: FoSCoS Home page

   Click on the “Login Food Businesses”

   Enter the License/Registration/Application number: - Enter a valid
    License/Registration/Application number

   Click on “proceed”
   Enter password: - Enter a valid password
   Enter Captcha: - Enter the Displayed Captcha
   To continue click on the Sign-in button.
   Verification Code: Enter the verification code that you received in the registered Mobile
    number/Email. User will be navigated to the FoSCoS Dashboard page as shown in figure below.
                                        Figure 2: FoSCoS Dashboard page

   Click on the “Issued”
   Click on the “Issued – License” Expandable button.
User will navigate to the page as shown in figure below:




                                       Figure 3: Login page

       Now click on the “Login to FRQMS”
       User will be navigated to the FRQMS landing page.
                                 Figure 4: FRQMS Landing page
1.3 Lot Approval by Admin:
 (i)     Click on All/Lot dispatched from side menu, Admin can see list of lots that are present at
         FRK from premix vendors.




                                         Figure 5: Details of dispatched lot


 (ii)    Click on a lot dispatched, user will get PREMIX LOT DETAILS page.
 (iii)   To acknowledge lot is received, click on Lot Received as shown in below image. It updates the
         status of Lot from Lot dispatched to lot received and Premix vendor will also get the updated
         status of Lot that lot is been received by FRK.
 (iv)    User needs to enter the date on which lot is received and comments (if any) and click yes on
      popup while acknowledging that lot is received. A prompt will be shown that lot is received.




                                  Figure 6: Premix lot details page




                           Figure 7: success toast message of receiving lot


(v)   Clicking on lot received from left side menu populates list of lots acknowledged by admin.
                                      Figure 8: Premix lots received

(vi)   Click on lot to see lot details page with possible actions of ‘Sample send to lab’, ‘Accept’,
       ‘Test rejected ready to send back’ as shown in below image.




        Figure 9: Option for FRK admin to accept, reject or send sample to lab for premix lot


(vii) If user clicks on send sample to lab, the sample will be sent to lab and lab will do necessary tests
       and publish the test report.
(viii) If the lab report is satisfactory, automatically admin user can see the lot stage as ‘Accepted’ and if
       the report is unsatisfactory, automatically admin user can see the lot stage as ‘Rejected’ and
       admin can sent back by clicking on ‘send rejected lot’.
(ix)   After clicking on Test rejected Ready to send back, an action will be shown on lot details page as
       ‘send rejected lot’. Clicking on it will send the lot back to premix vendor.
(x)    If the user clicks on Accept button as shown in above image. Then one popup will come, here user
       can enter approved date, enter comments and click on Accept. Again, one confirmation popup
        message will appear, here user have to click on Yes button.
 (xi)   Then success notification message will be shown as lot has been accepted and is available for use
        as shown in below image.




                               Figure 10: Success message for accepted lot


 (xii) Clicking on Accepted from left side menu will populate all lots that are approved by admin




                                 Figure 11: List of Premix accepted lots



1.4 Key features of FRK Admin:
On successful login, user will be navigated to below landing page.
                        Figure 12: Landing page of FRK admin




                Figure 33 (a): Creating Rice Mix (Raw material for FRK)


Admin can download the rice-mix table data by clicking on Download button.



1.4.1 Creating Rice Mix:
Click on Rice Mix in the side drawer of the landing page, a Grid will be displayed on the screen with a ‘+’
icon at bottom right.
On clicking ‘+’ icon, a form will be displayed as shown below. Then click on ‘Add new vendor’ button, a
popup form will open as shown below
The user needs to fill the details in the form which consists of:
Vendor Details:
    a)   Name of the vendor: Name represents manufacturer/supplier name.
    b)   Vendor type: Choose the type of vender whether manufacturer or trader or broker.
    c)   Emal Id: Enter mail address of the vendor.
    d)   Mobile Number: Enter mobile number of the vendor.
    e)   Address Lane one: Enter the address of the vendor.
    f)   Address Lane two: Enter the address of the vendor.
    g)   Pin code: Enter pin code of the vendor.
    h)   Country: Select country.
    i)   States: Select state.
    j)   Districts: Select districts.
    k)   Village/City: Enter name of the village/city.


On clicking on “Vendor with FSSAI license number”, a form will appear as shown in below images
where user can search License number of the vendor and details will be auto filled in the vendor details.
Lot details:
    a)   Name: Enter name of the rice-mix.
    b)   Raw Material Type: Enter type of rice-mix used in FRK creation.
    c)   Manufacturing Lot Number: Enter manufacturing lot number (if any).
    d)   Batch no (Auto Generated): Batch number of rice-mix will generate automatically.
    e)   Manufacturing date: Select manufacturing date of rice-mix.
    f)   Expiry date: Select expiry date of rice-mix.
    g)   Percentage to be used in mix: Mention the percentage of rice-mix to be used in FRK batch.
    h)   Total quantity (in kg): Enter quantity of raw material in kg.
    i)   Rice Type: Choose rice type procured from the vendor (raw / boil).
    j)   Attachments: Add any attachments/rice-mix reports that are associated with rice mix.
Figure 14: Form to capture rice mix details




   Figure 15: Form to add new vendor
        Figure 16: Form after clicking Vendor with FSSAI license number button

Once all the data pertaining to the procured raw materials/rice mix is added. Click on the create button as
shown in figure above.
On successful creation of lot, a confirmation message will appear on the screen as shown in figure below.




                           Figure 17: Success toast after creating of rice mix lot


1.4.2 Creating batch
  (i)   To create a batch, click on FRK tab in the side drawer of the landing page as shown in figure below.
        A grid will be displayed on the screen with a ‘+’ icon at bottom right.
                                   Figure 18: Creating FRK batch


(ii)    On clicking ‘+’ icon, a form will appear as shown above. The user needs to fill in the form
        details which consists of:
       Vendor details: -
       (a) Name of Vendor: Name of your organization is populated,
       (b) FSSAI License: FSSAI license number is auto populated,
       (c) Vendor type: Select vendor type,
       (d) Address: Vendor address is auto populated,
       Select checkbox if Manufacturer is accredited by any agency
       Batch details:
       a) Name: enter name of the batch,
       b) Manufacturing Batch Number: Enter Manufacturing Batch Number (if any).
       c) Batch No: batch number will generate automatically.
       d) Manufacturing date: Enter manufacturing date.
       e) Expiry date: Enter expiry date.
       f) % to be used: Enter percentage of this FRK to be used at Miller manufacturing time.
       g) Total quantity (in Kgs): Quantity of FRK generated under this batch.
       h) Material details: - Click on add rice mix and premix and select the rice mix, premix to be
          consumed under this batch & enter quantity & select units.
       i) Instructions: Enter the instructions that FRK manufacturer should be notified at the time usage of
          this premix powder as raw material in FRK generation.
       j) Attachments: User can upload material specification sheet and technical specification sheet and
          any additional attachments that are associated with Premix powder.
                                     Figure 18: FRK batch create page
After entering the batch details in the form, click on the create button as shown in figure above.
On successful creation of batch, a confirmation message will appear on the screen as shown in figure
below.




                   Figure 20: Success message for creation of FRK batch
In the left side menu under Batch, the user can see created batches in All and Created options as shown
in figure below. The “All” tab displays a consolidated list of all batches under various categories such as
created, sent to lab for testing. Testing done, accepted, rejected etc. Under “Created” tab, a list of the
batches created by the user is displayed.
                          Figure 21: Displaying created FRK batches

1.5 Send samples for lab testing
The FRK manufactured in a specific FRK unit needs to be tested in designated laboratories.
 (i)    To send the manufactured sample to the lab, click on the created batch from the grid
        and the batch details page is displayed.
 (ii)   Scroll down to the end of the batch and click on ‘Send Sample to Lab’ button and enter the
        date,
        select lab name and comments and click on submit button.
(iii)   This will initiate the process of dispatching the sample to the lab in offline mode.
(iv)    An acknowledgment will be sent by the lab, once the Lab receives the sample and lab
        reports will be published after performing the lab tests.
 (v)    If sample sent is in damaged condition, Lab may reject the sample and FRK manufacturer
        may need to resend the sample using above process.




                          Figure 22: Sending sample to lab for testing
                            Figure 23: send sample to lab popup form


   (vi) User can see success message as ‘sample has been sent to lab for testing’ as shown
in below image.




                      Figure 24: Success message after sample is sent to lab
(vii)    Once testing on sample is completed, And if the report is satisfactory then the stage of the
         batch
         will be changed to ‘Batch ready to be dispatched’.
(viii)   From the side menu, the user can click on ‘Batch ready to be dispatched’ to see list of batches
         in
         the grid with the stage of Batch ready to be dispatched as shown below.
 (ix)    Clicking on the batch will populate the batch details which also includes test results.
                    Figure 25: Batch ready to be dispatched stage for FRK user
  (x)    If the lab report is unsatisfactory, the stage of batch will be shown as ‘Rejected’. Click on
         ‘Rejected’
         from the side menu to see list of rejected samples from lab as shown below.




                                 Figure 26: List of rejected samples
 (xi)    User can click on ‘Batch ready to be dispatched’ in the side menu to see list of batches ready
         for
         dispatch.
(xii)    On clicking any particular batch from the list, FRK BATCH DETAILS page will open
         where the packaging information is to be added to dispatch the selected batch.
(xiii)   Expand packaging info and click on add, enter size, units and quantity. Click on save
         packaging info. For example, if batch is generated for 1000kg and if this has to be
         dispatched as 20kg bags of 50 units, the same details to be added in packaging details
         section as shown below in fig 46.
(xiv)    These bag details will be populated while dispatching the FRK.


User can also delete packaging info by clicking on the delete button.




                                  Figure 27: Added Packing Info
1.6 Dispatch:
  (i)    After adding package details in a batch, the option to Dispatch will be enabled at the
         end of the page.
  (ii)   Click on Dispatch as shown in image below.




                                Figure 28: Dispatching FRK batch
A popup page will open as shown in the image below. Enter the following details:
    a) Manufacture Lot number: Enter manufacture lot number (if any).
    b) Dispatch Date: Enter dispatch date (present date is populated as default date).
    c) Manufacture Select: Choose between two options (Dropdown & License Number) for
       Miller vendor.
    d) Dropdown:
           a. Manufacturer type: Select manufacturer type public/private. Public
               manufacturers are those Miller/Warehouse who are registered with
               Government and are eligible to generate Miller (Fortified Rice). Private
               manufacturers are those from the market who can trade for their own purposes.
           b. Manufacturer name: For Public type, select the Miller/Warehouse vendor
               from the dropdown list.
    e) License Number:
           a. Manufacture License Number: Enter a valid license number to search.
           b. Search Button: Click on Search button after entering a valid license number.
           c. Manufacture Name: It will be auto-populated after clicking search button.
    f) Addition of baggage: Click on ‘add item’ & select bag size & enter quantity.

User can delete added items and can re-enter the data at this stage, if required.
Once lot details are added, click on Dispatch lot as shown in below image and click on ‘Yes’ in
popup to
dispatch the lot to FRK Vendor.
Then success toast message will be displayed as shown below.




                                     Figure 29: Dispatch a lot
                           Figure 30: Success toast for dispatching lot


If the batch is not fully dispatched, its status will be changed to partially dispatched. User can
dispatch bags to multiple vendors also using Dispatch feature. The details of dispatched lots are
shown under ‘Usage Details’ section in details page.




                                Figure 31: List of dispatched lot


     Note:- Dispatched lot will be shown under “Packaging Info” section as shown below.
                        Figure 32: Details of dispatched lot

Refer to the side menu for Lot category. Clicking on ‘All’ populates list of all lots that are
dispatched to FRK and accepted/rejected by FRK. Clicking on ‘Lots Dispatched’ will populate
list of batches that are dispatched to FRK but not yet received by FRK. Clicking on ‘Lot sent
back’ will populate a list of lots sent back by FRK vendor. Clicking on ‘Rejected lot received’
will populate a list of lots received back to Premix vendor.




                        Figure 33: Rejected lot received by FRK user




1.7 Managing Users:
Admin can add new users from User tab under Manage tab in side-drawer.




                               Figure 34: Manage User page



1.7.1 Adding New Users
      Admin can add new users by clicking on the + button in the right-corner.
      Admin can view ‘User Create’ form after clicking on the + button.




                       Figure 35: User create form

      Enter First Name, Last Name, Username, Email ID, Password, Confirm Password.
      Click on Add role button.
                        Figure 36: After clicking on the add role button

   Add category, select role & click on “Add User” button.
   For FRK, Admin needs to provide 2 roles to user, i.e. Approver and User.
   Category -> FRK & Role -> User
   Category -> FRK & Role -> Approver
   After clicking on “Add User” button a successful toast will appear saying
    “User Created Successfully”.




                        Figure 37: User Created Successfully message

   Admin can use these credentials for the newly created user, it will have only user access
    and will not have manage tab in the side-drawer.
   These newly created credentials should be used on this link: https://frqms.fssai.gov.in/
   The existing records will be shown to the newly created user.
