FoRTrace
[Fortified Rice Traceability Application]

User Manual for Manufacturers of Rice Millers
The miller comes third in line of the supply chain of the Rice fortification. The miller gets its raw materials
from the FRK manufacturer which is then tested (if required) or verified (from lab reports) and then
utilized as input/ raw material for manufacturing of fortified rice. In addition to the fortified rice kernels,
the blender also gets rice/broken rice which is then blended with the FRK in ratios specified by the Govt.
of India.

1.1 Process:
The key functionalities that occur at miller level are as described below.
    1. There will be 2 roles at miller vendor level, admin has access to both.

            a. Approver: Who receives FRK lots and acknowledge and verify the lot quality and get it
               tested at lab if required and finally either approve the Lot or reject the lot
            b. User: Who creates Rice batches and FRK batches and send sample to lab and approve
               appropriate FRK rice.

    2. Addition of Raw Materials in to the organization/portal: While procuring the raw materials
       (Rice) from suppliers, the details of procurement need to be added in this portal as well. These
       details are used at the time of miller batch creation. User can choose the list of raw materials
       added as input at the time of miller batch creation. Similarly, another key raw material (FRK
       kernels) will be procured from FRK vendors. Once the Lot is dispatched from FRK vendor, it will
       be populated to miller vendor under Lot Dispatched category. After receiving the Lot, the
       approver from miller Vendor will acknowledge that the lot is received and further, can review the
       lab reports of the premix powder and FRK kernels in Lot details page and if lab reports are
       satisfactory, then automatically lot is accepted. If the Lot lab report is not good, automatically lot
       is rejected. The rejected lots will be sent back to FRK vendor and Accepted Lots will be used in
       miller Batch creation as input raw material.
    3. Creation of Batch: Once raw materials are added, user can create a miller batch where raw
       materials that are used in the batch will be taken as input and a batch will be created in the
       application.
    4. Sending sample to the Lab: After a miller batch is created, a sample need to be sent to Lab.
       Once the self-tests are completed, and if the lab report is satisfactory, automatically batch is
       approved and changed the stage as ‘Batch ready to be dispatched’ and if the lab report is
       unsatisfactory then automatically batch is rejected and update the stage as ‘Rejected’. The
       functionality of miller manufacturer is described below in detail.



1.2 Login
To log into the system as a Miller admin, go to the “FoSCoS” portal by using the following link:
        https://FoSCoS.fssai.gov.in/

        A FoSCoS Home page will be displayed as shown in the following figure:
                                   Figure 1: FoSCoS Home page


   Click on the “Login Food Businesses”

   Enter the License/Registration/Application number: - Enter a valid
    License/Registration/Application number Click on “proceed”

   Enter password: - Enter a valid
    password Enter Captcha: - Enter the
    Displayed Captcha To continue click
    on the Sign-in button.

   Verification Code: Enter the verification code that you received in the registered Mobile
    number/Email.
User will be navigated to the FoSCoS Dashboard page as shown in following figure:
                                      Figure 2: FoSCoS Dashboard page

Click on the “Issued”
Click on the “Issued – License” Expandable button.
User will navigate to the page as shown in figure below.




                                        Figure 3: Login page
Now click on the “Login to FRQMS”

User will be navigated to the FRQMS landing page.
                                        Figure 4: Landing page



1.3 Lot Approval by Admin:
 (i)    Click on All/Lot dispatched from side menu, Admin can see list of lots that are present at miller
        from FRK vendors.




                       Figure 5: Dashboard showing FRK lots with different stages
 (ii)   Click on a lot, user will get FRK LOT DETAILS page. To acknowledge lot is received, click on
        Lot Received as shown in below image.
(iii)   It updates the status of Lot from Lot dispatched to lot received and FRK vendor will also get the
        updated status of Lot that loot is been received by miller.
(iv)    User has to enter the date on which lot is received and comments if any and click yes on popup
        while acknowledging that lot is received. A prompt will be shown that lot is received.
                                   Figure 6: FRK lot details page




                           Figure 7: Success toast message of receiving lot


(v)   Clicking on lot received from left side menu populates list of lots acknowledged by admin.
                                         Figure 8: FRK lots received


 (vi)    Click on lot to see lot details page with possible actions of ‘send sample to lab’, ‘Accept’, ‘Test
         rejected ready to send back’ as shown in below image.




                  Figure 9: Option for Miller admin to accept, reject or send sample to lab

(vii)    If user clicks on send sample to lab, the sample will be sent to lab and lab will do necessary tests
         and publish the test report.
(viii)   If the lab report is satisfactory, automatically admin user can see the lot stage as ‘Accepted’ and if
         the report is unsatisfactory, automatically admin user can see the lot stage as ‘Rejected’ and
         admin can send back by clicking on ‘send rejected lot’.
 (ix)    After clicking on Test rejected Ready to send back, an action will be shown on lot details page as
         ‘send rejected lot’. Clicking on it will send the lot back to FRK vendor.
  (x)    If the user clicks on Accept button as shown in above image. Then one popup will come, here user
        can enter approved date, enter comments and click on Accept. Again, one confirmation popup
        message will appear, here user have to click on Yes button.
(xi)    Then success notification message will be shown as lot has been accepted and is available for use
        as shown in below image.




                              Figure 10: Success toast for lot acceptance
(xii)   Click on Accepted from left side menu populate all lots that are approved by admin




                                  Figure 11: List of FRK accepted lots


1.4 Key features of MILLER Admin:
On successful login, the user will be navigated to below landing page.
                                 Figure 12: Landing page of miller admin




                            Figure 13: Creating Rice (Raw Material for miller)



1.4.1 Creating Rice:
Click on Rice Mix in the side drawer of the landing page, a Grid will be displayed on the screen with a ‘+’
icon at bottom right.
On clicking ‘+’ icon , a form will be displayed as shown below. The user needs to fill in the form
details which consists of:
Vendor Details:

    (a) Name of the vendor: Name represents manufacturer/supplier name from whom the rice was
        procured.
    (b) Vendor type: Choose the type of vender whether manufacturer or trader or broker.
    (c) Emal Id: Enter mail address of the vendor.
    (d) Mobile Number: Enter mobile number of the vendor.
    (e) Address Lane one: Enter the address of the vendor.
    (f) Address Lane two: Enter the address of the vendor.
    (g) Pin code: Enter pin code of the vendor.
    (h) Country: Select country.
    (i) States: Select state.
    (j) Districts: Select districts.
    (k) Village/City: Enter name of the village/city.
On clicking on “Vendor with FSSAI license number”, a form will appear as shown in below images
where user can search License number of the vendor and details will be auto filled in the vendor
details.

Lot details:

    (a) Name: Enter name of rice lot.
    (b) Manufacturing Lot Number: Enter manufacturing lot number (if any).
    (c) Batch Number (Auto-generated): Batch number of rice will generate automatically.
    (d) Manufacturing date: select manufacturing date of rice.
    (e) Expiry date: select expiry date of rice.
    (f) %age to be used in mix: Enter %age of rice to be mixed while preparing miller batch.
    (g) Total quantity (in kg): enter quantity of rice in kg.
    (h) Crop year: The year of the crop when rice was produced.
    (i) Type: Type of Rice. A drop down of Boil or Raw. Choose the type of rice that is procured.
    (j) Grade: Grade of the rice
    (k) Variety: Variety of the rice.
    (l) Attachments: Add any attachments/rice reports that are associated with raw material.




                                 Figure 14: Form to capture rice details
                                    Figure 15: Form to add new vendor




               Figure 16: Form after clicking “Vendor with FSSAI license number” button




Once all the data pertaining to the procured raw materials/rice is added. Click on the create button as
shown in figure above.
On successful creation of lot, a confirmation message will appear on the screen as shown in following figure:
                                  Figure 17: Success toast after creating a rice lot


  6.4.3 Creating batch




                                          Figure 18: Creating miller batch
  (i)      To create a batch, click on miller tab in the side drawer of the landing page as shown above. A grid
           will be displayed on the screen with a ‘+’ icon at bottom right. Click on it.
  (ii)     On clicking ‘+’ icon, a form will appear as shown below. The user needs to fill in the form details
           which consists of:
Vendor details: -
         (a) Name: Name of your organization is populated,
         (b) License: Fssai license number is auto populated,
         (c) Vendor type: select vendor type
            (d) Address: vendor address is auto populated,
            Select checkbox if Manufacturer is Accredited by any agency
            (e) Material details: - click on add FRK & add Rice and select the raw material to be consumed
                under this batch & enter quantity & select units. Choose both FRK raw material and rice raw
                materials. Read instructions from FRK & miller manufacturer carefully before adding the
                quantity of FRK kernels. Make sure ratio of FRK kernels to rice is considered.
            (f) Instructions: Enter the instructions that warehouse should be notified at the time usage of this
                fortified rice for distribution.
Batch details: -

            (a) Name: enter name of the batch.
            (b) Manufacturing Batch Number: Enter Manufacturing Batch Number (if any).
            (c) Batch No: Batch number will be auto-generated,
            (d) Manufacturing date: Enter manufacturing date,
            (e) Expiry date: Enter expiry date,
            (f) Total quantity(in Kgs): Quantity of fortified rice generating under this batch.
            (g) Attachments: User can upload material specification sheet and technical specification sheet and
                any additional attachments that are associated with Premix powder or FRK, fortified rice.


    (iii)      After entering the batch details in the form, click on the create button
    (iv)       On successful creation of batch, a confirmation message will appear on the screen as shown below
     (v)       In the left side menu under Batch, user can see created batch in All and Created option. The “All”
               tab displays a consolidated list of all batches under various categories such as created, sent to lab
               for testing. Testing done, accepted, rejected etc. Under “created” tab, a list of the batches created
               by the user is displayed.




                                           Figure 19: Miller batch create page
                             Figure 20: Success toast for creation miller batch




                               Figure 62: Displaying created miller batches


1.5 Send samples for lab testing to local lab
 (i)    The fortified rice manufactured in a specific miller unit needs to be tested in local laboratories. A
        sample should be sent to the local lab by clicking on ‘Send Sample to Lab’ button.
 (ii)   The local lab team performs the test and uploads the test report in the portal.
(iii)   If user click on send sample to lab, the sample will be sent to lab and lab will do necessary tests
        and publish the test report.
(iv)    If the lab report is satisfactory, automatically admin user can see the batch stage as ‘Batch ready
      to dispatch’ and if the report is unsatisfactory, automatically admin user can see the batch stage as
      ‘Rejected’
(v)   If the user wants to dispatch batch without testing, user can click on the ‘Approved. Ready to
      dispatch’ button. The stage of batch will be changed to ‘Batch ready to dispatch’.
                                       Figure 21: Miller batch details


 (vi)    Clicking on Batch ready to be dispatched from the side menu populates a list of batches that have
         been Batch ready to be dispatched as shown below:




               Figure 22: Dashboard displaying list of Batch ready to be dispatched batches
(vii)    On clicking a particular batch from the list, the miller BATCH DETAILS page will be displayed
         where the user needs to fill in the packaging information required to dispatch batch.
(viii)   Expand packaging info and click on add, enter size, units and quantity. Click on save packaging
         info. For example, if batch is generated for 1000kg and if this has to be dispatched as 20kg bags
         of 50 units, the same details to be added in packaging details section as shown below.
                                Figure 23: Displaying packaging info details
(ix)    These bag details will be populated while dispatching the fortified rice.
 (x)    User can also delete packaging info by clicking on the delete button.


1.6 Dispatch:
 (i)    After adding package details in a batch, the option to Dispatch will be enabled at the end of the
        page.
 (ii)   Click on Dispatch as shown in image above.




                                         Figure 24: Dispatch a lot
A popup page will open as shown in the image above. Enter the following details
        (a) Manufacture Lot number: Enter manufacture lot number (if any).
        (b) Dispatch Date: Enter dispatch date (present date is populated as default date).
        (c) Manufacture Select: Choose between two options (Dropdown & License Number) for FRK vendor.
        (d) Dropdown:
               a. Manufacturer type: Select manufacturer type public/private. Public manufacturers are
                   those warehouses who are registered with Government. Private manufacturers are those
                   from the market who can trade for their own purposes.
               b. Manufacturer name: For Public type, select the warehouse from the dropdown list.


        (e) License Number:
                a. Manufacture License Number: Enter a valid license number to search.
                b. Search Button: Click on Search button after entering a valid license number.
                c. Manufacture Name: It will be auto-populated after clicking search button.

        (f) Addition of baggage: Click on ‘add item’ & select bag size & enter quantity.




Once lot details are added, click on the Dispatch lot as shown in above image and click on ‘Yes’ in popup
to dispatch the lot to warehouse vendor.




                                     Figure 25: Displaying lot dispatched success toast
 (i)        If the batch is not fully dispatched, its status will be changed to partially dispatched. User can
            dispatch bags to multiple vendors also using Dispatch feature.
 (ii)       After dispatching lot, user can view the dispatched lot details under ‘Packaging Info’ section.
(iii)       The details of dispatched lots are shown under ‘Usage Details’ section in details page.
                                       Figure 26: List of lot dispatched
 (iv)    Refer to the side menu for Lot category.
  (v)    Clicking on ‘All’ populates the list of all lots that are dispatched to warehouse and
         accepted/rejected by warehouse.
 (vi)    Clicking on ‘Lots Dispatched side menu will populate list of batched that are dispatched to
         warehouse but not yet received by warehouse.
 (vii)   Clicking on ‘Lot sent back’ populate list of lots sent back by warehouse vendor.
(viii)   Clicking on ‘Rejected lot received’ populate list of lots received back to MILLER vendor.

1.7 Managing Users:
Admin can add new users from User tab under Manage tab in side-drawer.




                                         Figure 27: Manage User page
1.7.1 Adding New Users
      Admin can add new users by clicking on the + button in the right-corner.
      Admin can view ‘User Create’ form after clicking on the + button.




                               Figure 28: User create form

      Enter First Name, Last Name, Username, Email ID, Password, Confirm Password.
      Click on Add role button.




                              Figure 72 (c): After clicking on the add role button

      Add category, select role & click on “Add User” button.
      For Miller, Admin needs to provide 2 roles to user, i.e. Approver and User.
      Category -> Miller & Role -> User
      Category -> Miller & Role -> Approver
      After clicking on “Add User” button a successful toast will appear saying “User Created
       Successfully”.
                             Figure 29: User Created Successfully message

   Admin can use these credentials for the newly created user, it will have only user access and will
    not have manage tab in the side-drawer.
   These newly created credentials should be used on this link: https://frqms.fssai.gov.in/
   The existing records will be shown to the newly created user.
