FoRTrace
[Fortified Rice Traceability Application]

User Manual for Warehouses
The warehouse comes fourth in line of the supply chain of the Rice fortification. The warehouse received
lots from miller and FRK, after receiving lot warehouse can directly accept the lot/directly reject the lot
which is then sent back to miller/FRK or send sample to local lab for self-certification, if lab report results
are within range then after self-certified lots are automatically accepted else lots are rejected and change
the stage as lot to send back which is further send back to miller/FRK. The accepted lots from FRK and
miller can be sent to another warehouse and to another manufacturers.

1.1 Process:
The key functionalities that occur at warehouse level is as described below.
    1. There will be 2 roles at warehouse vendor level, admin has access to both.
          a. Approver: Who receives Miller/FRK lots and acknowledge and verify the lot quality and
              get it tested at lab if required and finally either approve the Lot or reject the lot and also
              can dispatch lot to another warehouse.
          b. User: same as approver.
The functionality of miller manufacturer is described below in detail:
1.2 Login




                                 Figure 1: Login page for warehouse admin

To log into the system as a miller admin, go to following link https://frqms.fssai.gov.in/

A login page will be displayed

        Username: Enter a valid username
        Password: Enter a valid password
        To continue, click on the Login button.

On successful login, the landing page will be shown
1.3 Lot Approval by Warehouse Admin:
 (i)    Click on All/Lot dispatched from side menu, Admin can see list of lots that are present at
        warehouse from Miller vendors in Miller Lots and lots from FRK vendors in FRK lots.




                        Figure 2:     Dashboard showing Miller lots with different stages




                        Figure 3: Dashboard showing FRK lots with different stages


 (i)    Click on a lot, user will get MILLER/FRK LOT DETAILS page. To acknowledge lot is received, click on
        Lot Received as shown in below image.

 (ii)   It updates the status of Lot from Lot dispatched to lot received and MILLER vendor will also get
        the updated status of Lot that loot is been received by Warehouse.
(iii)   User has to enter the date on which lot is received and comments if any and click yes on popup
        while acknowledging that lot is received. A prompt will be shown that lot is received.




                                        Figure 4: MILLER lot details page




                                        Figure 5: FRK lot details page

(iv)    Clicking on lot received from left side menu populates list of lots acknowledged by admin.
                                 Figure 6: MILLER lots received




                                   Figure 7: FRK lots received


(v)   Click on lot to see lot details page with possible actions of ‘Send sample to Lab’, ‘Accept’, ‘Test
      rejected ready to send back’ as shown in below image.
         Figure 8: Option for Warehouse admin to accept, reject or Send sample to Lab for Miller




         Figure 9: Option for Warehouse admin to accept, reject or Send sample to Lab for FRK


 (vi)     If user click on Send sample to Lab, the sample will be sent to the local lab and lab will do
          necessary tests and publish the test report.
(vii)     If the report is satisfactory, after test lot will automatically accepted & showing the stage as
          ”Accepted”, if the report is unsatisfactory, after test lot will automatically rejected & showing
          stage as ‘lot to send back’
(viii)    After clicking on Test rejected Ready to send back, an action will be shown on lot details page as
          ‘Lot to send back’. Clicking on it will send the lot back to miller/FRK vendor.
(ix)    If the user clicks on Accept button as shown in above image. Then a popup screen will be displayed
        and the user will be prompted to enter approved date, enter comments and click on Accept.
 (x)    Again one confirmation popup prompt will appear where the user have to click on the Yes button.
(xi)    Then success notification message will be shown as “lot has been accepted and is available for
        use” as shown in below image.




                        Figure 10: Success toast for lot acceptance for Miller




                        Figure 11: Success toast for lot acceptance for FRK
(xii)   Click on Accepted from left side menu populate all lots that are approved by admin
                              Figure 12: List of MILLER lots accepted




                              Figure 13: List of FRK lots accepted


1.4 Lot Dispatch by Warehouse Admin:
  (i)   Click on MILLER/FRK LOTS under Inventory from side menu, Admin can see list of lots that
        are present at warehouse from Miller vendors as shown below:
(ii)   Admin user can dispatch only accepted lots to FCI Storage/ Miller Manufacturers (FRK lots).




                     Figure 14: Miller lot Inventory page




                             Figure 15: FRK lot Inventory page
(iii)   When user click on dispatch button as shown in image above, then lot dispatch popup form will
        open as shown below:




                                 Figure 16: Lot dispatch details form
(iv)      Addition of lot: Click on ‘Add Lot’ & select Lot No-RemQty, enter quanty to dispatch, select
          units and also user can add multiple lots if available as shown below
  (v)     User can delete added items and can re-enter the data if any mistakes are there.
 (vi)     Now enter the following details:
      (a) Dispatch Date: enter dispatch date (present date is populated as default date),
      (b) Manufacturer type: select manufacturer type public/private. Public manufacturers are those who
          are registered with Government & Private manufacturers are those from the market who can trade
          for their own purposes.
      (c) Manufacturer name: For Public/Private type, a list of mapped vendors are populated. select
          manufacturer name.
(vi)     Once lot details are added, click on the Dispatch lot as shown in below image and click on ‘Yes’ in
          popup         to       dispatch        the        lot       to      FCI      Storage       vendor.
                           Figure 17: Lot dispatch details form




(vii)   After clicking on Dispatch lot, success toast message will be shown as shown below




                           Figure 18: Dispatch lot success toast
