FoRTrace
[Fortified Rice Traceability Application]

User Manual for Manufacturers of Premix for FRK
1.1 Login:
To log into the system as a Premix admin, go to the “FoSCoS” portal by using the link: https://foscos.fssai.gov.in/

A FoSCoS Home page will be displayed as shown in the figure below:




                                        Figure 1: FoSCoS Home page


       Click on the “Login Food Businesses”

       License/Registration/Application number: - Enter a valid License/Registration/Application number

       Click on “proceed”

       Enter password: - Enter a valid password
       Enter Captcha: - Enter the Displayed Captcha

       To continue click on the Sign-in button.
       Verification Code: Enter the verification code that you received in the registered Mobile number /
        Email.
User will be navigated to the FoSCoS Dashboard page as shown in figure below:




                                                                                                   2|Page
                                      Figure 2: FoSCoS Dashboard page

       Click on the “Issued”
       Click on the “Issued – License” Expandable button.
User will be navigated to the page as shown in figure below:




                                        Figure 3: Login page


                                                                        3|Page
       Now click on the “Login to FRQMS”
       User will be navigated to the FoRTrace landing page.




                                          Figure 4: Landing page

Admin can also download the raw material table data by clicking on the Download button.



1.2 Creating Raw Material
Click on Raw material in the side drawer of the landing page as shown in figure above, a Grid will be
displayed on the screen with a ‘+’ icon at bottom right.
On clicking ‘+’ icon, a form will be displayed as shown below. Then click on ‘Add new vendor’ button, a
Pop up form will open as shown below
The user needs to fill the details in the form which consists of:

Vendor Details:
    (a) Name of the vendor: Name represents manufacturer/supplier name from whom the raw material
        was procured.
    (b) Vendor type: Choose the type of vender whether manufacturer or trader or broker.
    (c) Email Id: Enter mail address of the vendor.
    (d) Mobile Number: Enter mobile number of the vendor.
    (e) Address Lane one: Enter the address of the vendor.
    (f) Address Lane two: Enter the address of the vendor.
    (g) Pin code: Enter pin code of the vendor.
    (h) Country: Select country.
    (i) States: Select state.
    (j) Districts: Select districts.
    (k) Village/City: Enter name of the village/city.
                                                                                             4|Page
On clicking on “Vendor with FSSAI license number”, a form will appear as shown in below images
where user can search License number of the vendor and details will be auto filled in the vendor details.
Lot details:
    (a) Raw-material Name: Choose raw-material from a dropdown of 3 options (Vitamin B12,
        Vitamin B6-Folic Acid & Iron).
    (b) Raw Material Type: Choose type of raw material used in premix creation.
    (c) Manufacturing Lot Number: Enter manufacturing lot number (if any).
    (d) Batch no (Auto Generated): Batch number of raw material will generate automatically.
    (e) Manufacturing date: Select manufacturing date of raw material.
    (f) Expiry date: Select expiry date of raw material.
    (g) Percentage to be used in mix: Mention the percentage of raw material to be used in premix
    (h) Total quantity (in kg): Enter quantity of raw material in kg.
    (i) Attachments: Add any attachments/raw material reports that are associated with raw material.
        e.g.: Lab report of raw material, license of supplier etc.




                               Figure 3: Form to capture Raw material data




                                 Figure 3 (a): Form to add new vendor
                                                                                                  5|Page
                 Figure 3 (b): Form after clicking Vendor with FSSAI license number button

Once all the data pertaining to the procured raw materials is added. Click on the create button as shown in
figure above.
On successful creation of lot, a confirmation message will appear on the screen as shown in figure below:




                        Figure 4: Success message for creation of raw material lot




                                                                                                  6|Page
1.2.1 Creating batch
To create a batch, click on PREMIX tab in the side drawer of the landing page as shown in figure below. A
grid will be displayed on the screen with a ‘+’ icon at bottom right.




                         Figure 5: Creating batch from Premix tab of landing page


On clicking ‘+’ icon, a form will appear as shown in figure below. The user needs to fill the details in the
form which consists of:
Vendor details:
    a)   Name of Vendor: Name of your organization is populated,
    b)   FSSAI License: FSSAI license number is auto populated,
    c)   Vendor type: Select vendor type,
    d)   Address: Vendor address is auto populated,

        Select checkbox if Manufacturer is accredited by any agency
Batch details:
    a)   Name: Enter the name of the batch.
    b)   Manufacturing Batch Number: Enter Manufacturing Batch Number (if any).
    c)   Batch No: Batch number will generate automatically.
    d)   Manufacturing date: Enter manufacturing date of batch.
    e)   Expiry date: Enter expiry date of batch.
    f)   % to be used: %age to be mixed will be auto populated.
    g)   Total quantity (in Kgs): Quantity of premix powder generating under this batch.
    h)   Material details: - Click on add raw material and select the raw material to be consumed under
         this batch & enter quantity & select units.
    i)   Instructions: Enter the instructions that FRK manufacturer should be notified at the time usage of
         this premix powder as raw material in FRK generation.

                                                                                                    7|Page
    j)   Attachments: User can upload material specification sheet and technical specification sheet and
         any additional attachments that are associated with Premix powder.




                                 Figure 6: Premix batch creation

 After entering the batch details in the form, click on the create button as shown in figure above.
On successful creation of batch, a confirmation message will appear on the screen as shown in figure
below:




                             Figure 7: Success message for creation of batch
In the left side menu under Batch, the user can see created batches in All and Created options as shown
in figure below. The “All” tab displays a consolidated list of all batches under various categories such as
created, sent to lab for testing. Testing done, accepted, rejected etc. Under “Created” tab, a list of the
batches created by the user is displayed.



                                                                                                      8|Page
                              Figure 8: Display of batch created by the user



1.3 Send samples for lab testing
The premix manufactured in a specific premix unit needs to be tested in designated laboratories.
 (i)    To send the manufactured sample to the lab, click on the created batch from the grid and the
        batch details page is displayed.
 (ii)   Scroll down to the end of the batch and click on ‘Send Sample to Lab’ button and enter the date,
        select lab name and comments and click on submit button.
(iii)   This will initiate the process of dispatching the sample to the lab in offline mode.
(iv)    An acknowledgment will be sent by the lab, once the Lab receives the sample and lab reports will
        be published after performing the lab tests.
 (v)    If sample sent is in damaged condition, Lab may reject the sample and Premix manufacturer may
        need to resend the sample using above process.




                                                                                                   9|Page
                                        Figure 9: Sending sample to lab for testing




                                        Figure 10: send sample to lab popup form
(vi)     User can see success message as ‘sample has been sent to lab for testing’ as shown in below image.




                                  Figure 11: Success message after sample is sent to lab
       (vii)    Once testing on sample is completed, and if the report is satisfactory then the stage of the batch
                will be changed to ‘Batch ready to be dispatched’.
       (viii)   From the side menu, the user can click on ‘Batch ready to be dispatched’ to see list of batches in
                the grid with the stage of Batch ready to be dispatched as shown below.
        (ix)    Clicking on the batch will populate the batch details which also includes test results.




                                                                                                          10|Page
                        Figure 12: Batch ready to be dispatched stage for premix user
  (x)    If the lab report is unsatisfactory, the stage of batch will be shown as ‘Rejected’. Click on ‘Rejected’
         from the side menu to see list of rejected samples from lab as shown below.




                                      Figure 13: List of rejected samples


 (xi)    User can click on ‘Batch ready to be dispatched’ in the side menu to see list of batches ready for
         dispatch.
(xii)    On clicking any particular batch from the list, PREMIX BATCH DETAILS page will open where
         the packaging information is to be added to dispatch the selected batch.
(xiii)   Expand packaging info and click on add, enter size, units and quantity. Click on save packaging
         info. For example, if batch is generated for 1000kg and if this has to be dispatched as 20kg bags
         of 50 units, the same details to be added in packaging details section as shown below.
(xiv)    These bag details will be populated while dispatching the premix powder.
User can also delete packaging info by clicking on the delete button.
                                                                                                        11|Page
1.4 Dispatch:
After adding package details in a batch, the option to Dispatch will be enabled at the end of the page.
Click on Dispatch as shown in image below.




                                      Figure 14: Dispatching a batch
A popup page will open as shown in the image below. Enter the following details:
    (a) Manufacture Lot number: Enter manufacture lot number (if any).
    (b) Dispatch Date: Enter dispatch date (present date is populated as default date).
    (c) Manufacture Select: Choose between two options (Dropdown & License Number) for FRK vendor.
    (d) Dropdown:
            a. Manufacturer type: Select manufacturer type public/private. Public manufacturers are
                those FRK who are registered with Government and are eligible to generate FRK of
                Millers. Private manufacturers are those from the market who can trade for their own
                purposes.
            b. Manufacturer name: For Public type, select the FRK vendor from the dropdown list.
    (e) License Number:
            a. Manufacture License Number: Enter a valid license number to search.
            b. Search Button: Click on Search button after entering a valid license number.
            c. Manufacture Name: It will be auto-populated after clicking search button.
    (f) Addition of baggage: Click on ‘add item’ & select bag size & enter quantity. User can delete added
        items and can re-enter the data at this stage, if required.

Once lot details are added, click on Dispatch lot as shown in below image and click on ‘Yes’ in popup to
dispatch the lot to FRK Vendor.
Then success toast message will be displayed as follows:




                                                                                                    12|Page
  Figure 15(a): Dispatching a lot by dropdown




Figure 15(b): Dispatching a lot by license number




                                                    13|Page
                               Figure 16: Success toast for dispatching lot


If the batch is not fully dispatched, its status will be changed to partially dispatched. User can dispatch
bags to multiple vendors also using Dispatch feature. The details of dispatched lots are shown under
‘Usage Details’ section in details page.




                                     Figure 17: List of dispatched lot



Admin can download the usage details table data by clicking on Download button.
Note:- Dispatched lot will be shown under “Packaging Info” section as shown below.




                                                                                                  14|Page
                                 Figure 17 (a): Details of dispatched lot


Refer to the side menu for Lot category. Clicking on ‘All’ populates list of all lots that are dispatched to
FRK and accepted/rejected by FRK. Clicking on ‘Lots Dispatched’ will populate list of batches that are
dispatched to FRK but not yet received by FRK. Clicking on ‘Lot sent back’ will populate a list of lots
sent back by FRK vendor. Clicking on ‘Rejected lot received’ will populate a list of lots received back to
Premix vendor.




                              Figure 18(a): Rejected lot received by premix user




                                                                                                   15|Page
1.5 Managing Users:
Admin can add new users from User tab under Manage tab in side-drawer.




                               Figure 18(b): Manage User page


1.5.1 Adding New Users
      Admin can add new users by clicking on the + button in the right-corner.
      Admin can view ‘User Create’ form after clicking on the + button.




                       Figure 18 (c): User create form

      Enter First Name, Last Name, Username, Email ID, Password, Confirm Password.
      Click on Add role button.


                                                                                      16|Page
                      Figure 18(d): After clicking on the add role button

   Add category, select role & click on “Add User” button.
   Category > Premix & Role > User
   After clicking on “Add User” button a successful toast will appear saying “User Created
    Successfully”.




                       Figure 18(e): User Created Successfully message

   Admin can use these credentials for the newly created user, it will have only user access
    and will not have manage tab in the side-drawer.
   These newly created credentials should be used on this link: https://frqms.fssai.gov.in/
   The existing records will be shown to the newly created user.




                                                                                            17|Page
