Step 0: After downloading/updating and installing the FoSCoRIS application from Google
Playstore, sign in by entering username and password. Username and Password are same as
created/updated in Food Safety Compliance System (FoSCoS) by Designated Officers (DOs)
and Food Safety Officers (FSOs).




                              Allocation of Inspection by DO
Step 1: - Click on the left menu and click on “Allocate Inspection” as shown below:
Step 2: Enter the license no or application reference no and click on next button.




Step 3: Select the name FSO to whom the inspection should be assigned, fill remarks and
click on create inspection.
Step 4: Once allocated, the inspection can be seen in “Allocated Inspection” bin. However,
to re-assign any inspection, click on re-assign button and select the FSO from the drop down,
fill remarks and click on reassign button.
Acknowledging and conducting the Inspection by Food Safety Officer
Step 1: For accepting or rejecting any inspection, on the left menu navigate to “Inspection
Acknowledgement” and then click on accept/reject against the marked entry on which
inspection has to be conducted.
Step 2: Once inspection accepted/rejected by the concerned FSO, the applications can be
seen under the respective menu panel. DO can reassign inspection which has been rejected
by the FSO for conducting the inspection due to any particular reason.
Conducting the Inspection
Step 1: For moving forward with any accepted inspection, click on “Accepted Inspections”
bin under the left menu and then click on proceed against which inspection is to be done.
Once proceeded a popup will appear mentioning that the application is forwarded to
“Ongoing Inspections” bin.
*DOs/FSOs can also start Random Inspection (without allocation) by visiting ‘Start Random
Inspection’ tab and by entering License or Registration number.
Step 2: On left menu navigate to “Ongoing Inspections” bin and click on resume button
against the application the inspection is to be carried out.
Step 3: Click on the listed sections for marking observations, against each parameter in the
section, select the observation (Compliance, Non-Compliance, Partial Compliance, Not
applicable) from the dropdown entries. At the end fill the non-conformance observations and
comments. The entered observations can be saved as draft or submitted.
Step 4: Once completed, fill the remarks and click on finish button. A popup will come with
confirmation that “Inspection is completed successfully”.
Searching of Inspection Report
Step: For searching any inspection report, on the left menu click on “Search reports” and
then searching can be done on the basis of either FBO license number or Kind of business
wise.
The inspection reports can also be searched on FoSCoS after completion. The inspection
report is also available to concerned DO and Concerned FBO on the FoSCoS.
