   How to apply for Renewal?

    Through login: -

        Step 1: After logging in, navigate to “Renewal” and select “Apply for renewal of
        license/registration”.




Click
here




        Step 2: A list of issued license/registration for Renewal will appear. Click on “Proceed”
        against application which user wants to renew.




        NOTE: 1.) License(s)/Registration Certificate eligible for Renewal shall only be listed 120 Days
        prior to expiry of License.
        2.) License(s)/Registration Certificate shall not get listed here for Renewal once your
        License(s)/Registration Certificate has expired as of today. In that case submit a new
        application.
      Step 3: User will land on Form B: Application Details page wherein following stages will be in
      editable/non-editable mode:
      ◦ Premises Details: Non-editable.
      ◦ Product Selection: Non-editable.
      ◦ Communication Details: All sections are editable except registered address.
      ◦ Required Documents: Documents which are mandatory can only be uploaded.
      ◦ Payment: As per year(s) selected by user.

NOTE: Please note that if renewal of license is applied 90 days prior to expiration then only
renewal fees is charged.
Post 90 days a fine of Rs.100/day will be charged in addition to renewal fees.

      Step 4: After making payment, a receipt will be generated with a new 17-digit registration
      number which can be used for future reference.
          Below receipt shows renewal of central license for two years with no fine.
• Below receipt shows renewal of state license for two years with fine of Rs. 100/day.
• The total fee adds up to Rs. 5300 with renewal fee for 2 years Rs 4000 and Late fee for 13
  days of Rs. 1300.
Through homepage:

     Step 1: From homepage click on the box “Renewal of License and Registration Fee: Same as
     new Lic/Reg”.




                                                                                         Click here




     Step 2: Fill in the License/Registration no, validity end date and captcha code and click on
     “Submit”.




     Step 3: Click on “Proceed”.
Step 4: Form B will open wherein user can upload the documents, select the year(s) for
which license is required and choose payment method to move forward with the
application.
Step 5: After successfully completing the payment, a receipt will be generated with a 17-
digit reference number which can be used for future reference.




Step 6: User can track the status of application through the Homepage i.e.
foodlicensing.fssai.gov.in
