How to apply for modification of license/registration?

    Step 1: Open a web browser and search for https://foscos.fssai.gov.in/ Click on the
              green box “Modification of License and Registration Fee: Rs.1000 for License
              Rs.100 for Registration”




Step 2: Log in with Application Ref No./license No./registration certificate No. to modify and proceed
with the modification process
Step 3: After Login with Application Ref No./license No./registration No. Click on the
modification button in the side menu and click on apply for modification in lic/reg.
NOTE:- Select the details which you want to change. There are twotypes of modification
as explained below:This requires complete revision , kindly see screenshot below for
current version of modification.




◦ Scenario 1: If you select any (or all) of the top three category or top three along with any
  of the last two categories then it is called normalmodification and everything will be
  modifiable in application. For instance, if user selects any one of the options like
  Company Name, Registered office address details or kind of business/product/quantity
  details and
  selects any one or both the last two options then all the sections will be modifiable by
  user. Look into the figures below for reference:
◦ Scenario 2: If any of the last two categories is selected or both are selected then it is
  called Non–form C Modification and only those fields will be modifiable which are not
  printed on license and rest all other details will be modifiable. For instance, selecting
  Contact Details or Supporting Documents or both. Look into figures below for reference:
Step 4: Proceed with Form B modification, fill and modify details which require changes. On
“Required Documents” page, upload all documents again in both scenarios, fill in the
purpose of modification, tick check boxfor accepting declaration and click on “Save & Next”
to proceed.
Step 5: A green pop up will appear on top right corner of page to confirm that the
modification is successfully submitted and the concerned officer willtake further course
of action to generate license.
