Prosecution flow – For Central Authority ( as of 23/04/2025)

Flow in CLA login:

There are two ways to launch the prosecution in DO login

    1.    From the Sampling module, after the referral lab result is available and the officer has
         sent a notice to the FBO about the result.
2..Directly from the Prosecution tab.
Part :A)

From the Sampling module, after the referral lab result is available and the officer has sent a
notice to the FBO about the result.




 1..Click on “ View & Action on Notice Details” to launch the prosecution after the referral lab result is
 available and the officer has sent a notice to the FBO about the result
  2.Click on “Action to be taken” and select “Prosecution” under “Action to be taken” tab




After user clicks on “Submit request for prosecution”, the prosecution request will be submitted to FSSAI
HQ for approval/rejection
3. Prosecution status can be view under “View Prosecution”
4.. FSSAI HQ may ask for clarifications on the prosecution requests submitted by the DO. These
clarifications are shared as queries linked to specific rules, as shown in the image below




5...Responding to clarification:

Click on procced
6..




7.. Proceeding for prosecution when request is approved:
When you click on "Launch Prosecution," a window will open showing all sample IDs linked to the
license number. In the action column, sample ID will have a "Create Prosecution" button.
The prosecution record can be viewed




Regular entries can be added by clicking on the "Add Entry" tab under the Action section, as shown in
the image below.
In RCD enforcement login.

1.. All prosecution requests appear in the RCD enforcement login. You can filter them by status, such as
"Prosecution request pending," "Sent for clarification," "Granted," "Rejected," etc. The list is shown in
descending order, meaning the oldest records appear at the top and the newest ones at the bottom.




2.. When you click on the "Proceed" tab, three options appear:

Send back to DO for clarification

Grant permission for prosecution

Reject
2. The user ( HQ) can send the prosecution request back to the DO for clarification by adding queries
along with the related rules, as shown in the image below.
3.. The clarification response sent by the DO can be viewed, and more queries can be added if needed,
as shown in the image below.




4...Granting permission for prosecution

It is mandatory to upload “Order of Prosecution” while granting prosecution request.
5.. prosecution request which have been granted can be viewed as
Part-2) ..Directly from the Prosecution tab.




Prosecution requests can also be created by directly clicking on the Prosecution Bin. In this case, the
user will see two options: "Create New Prosecution" and "Create Prosecution against Sample ID."

It is recommended to use "Create Prosecution against Sample ID" as explained in this manual ( Part -1)
to avoid duplicate prosecution entries for the same sample ID.
You can edit "FSS Regulations/Rules/Act & Sections" and view the added entries under "View Log," as
shown in the image below.




.
