Adjudication can be submitted in two ways:

   1. Using the Sampling module after the referral lab results are available.
2. Directly through the Adjudication bin, as shown in the image below.
USER MANUAL FOR ADJUDICATION FLOW

   1. CLA/CFSO bin: The process starts by fetching the details of the License number given




   2. Authority needs to fill the details of “Add Witness and Add FBO” details:




   3. Authority needs to fill the mandatory details:
4. In the sample details page the following details are required to fill




5.   Sealed sample photos are required to be uploaded with a description




6. Submit sample verified through OTP
7.   Next step: Sample forward to Lab




8. Lab forward process:




9.    Next Step: upload Sample Result:




10. Result status > Confirming or Non-Confirming
11. After that Authority may issue a Notice if the lab test result non-conformed




12. Notice page view: the remarks box is in editable format.




13. OTP verification and Notice issued from here.
14. After issuance of the Notice it will be visible in the FBO bin under Pending Action> View
    Notice from DO, from there FBO can file an Appeal.




15. The Form- VIII page will be filled by FBO.




16. E-sign and OTP verification:




17. FBO can view the appeal after submission.
18. CLA bin next step “View and Action on Notice Details”




19. The Authority may send 3rd sample to the referral lab (Rule 2.4.6), here No. of days left to
    accept or reject count will be displayed.




20. Sample forward to Lab details required to fill:
21. After clicking on the submit button the sample details will be forwarded to Lab:




22. Upload 3rd sample result:
23. Result status > Confirming or Non-Confirming




24. After that Authority may issue a Notice if the lab test result non-conformed




25. Issue Notice process: as per Rule 3.1.1
26. OTP verification is required to issue Notice.




27. The authority can view the Action on Notice details.




28. FBO Bin: 3rd sample issue notice is visible in FBO, but the “appeal” option is disabled here.




29. CLA bin: The Authority can accept or Reject the Appeal raised by FBO.




30. After accepting the appeal authority needs to choose the radio button for “ Action to be
    taken for Adjudication” if required.
31. After clicking on the “proceed for adjudication” option the below page will display. The
    authority will select the FSS Regulation/rules/act and Adjudication date with remarks.




32. To create the Adjudication OTP authentication is required.




33. After creating the Adjudication it will show as “open case”.
34. For further processing to close the case by two options will be displayed under the “License
    Adjudication for Form VIII” tab as Close with penalty and Close without penalty(marked in
    red color in the screenshot).




35. If the penalty is applicable then the authority can choose the following steps:
    (A)




    (B)




    (C)




36. After closing the case with Penalty “View Raise Penalty “will display




37. Penalty Status is shown in below screenshot:
38. Penalty module

    CLA can update the payment:

    CLA bin: (a)




    (b)




39. After accepting the payment this payment history will be reflected in the CLA bin.
40. The same status will be updated in the “Adjudication” tab under “License Adjudication for
    Form VIII.




   ------------------------------------------------User Manual End---------------------------------------------
