1.User manual of Adjudication for Central Authority:-
Step 0: First Open the web browser and search for FoSCoS Web portal and login to
Central authority for central adjudication.




Step 1: Go for central adjudication having both the option Licence Adjudication and
Registration Adjudication.
User manual of Adjudication for State RA Authority:-

Step 0: First Open the web browser and search for FoSCoS Web portal and login to
State RA authority for Registration adjudication.




Step 1: Go for adjudication , state RA have only one option Registration
Adjudication.
Step 0: First Open the web browser and search for FoSCoS Web portal and login to
State DO authority for Licence adjudication.




Step 1: Go for adjudication , state DO have only one option Licence Adjudication.
2.User manual of Improvement Notice for Central Authority:-

Step 0: First Open the web browser and search for FoSCoS Web portal and login to
Central authority for central Improvement notice.




Step 1: Go for central Improvement notice having both the option Licence
Improvement notice and Registration Improvement notice.
Step 2: Go for Licence Improvement notice by filling required details like licence
number ,improvement notice ref no. And status and date.




Step 3: Send new Licence Improvement notice by filling required details like
Application ref no./Licence number .
Step 4: Go for Registration Improvement notice by filling required details like
certificate number ,improvement notice ref no. And status and date.




Step 5: Send new Registration Improvement notice by filling required details like
Application ref no./certificate number .
User manual of Improvement Notice for State RA Authority:-


Step 0: First Open the web browser and search for FoSCoS Web portal and login to
State RA authority for registration Improvement notice.




Step 1: Go for Registration Improvement notice and click on send new improvement
notice for registration.
User manual of Improvement Notice for State DO Authority:-


Step 0: First Open the web browser and search for FoSCoS Web portal and login to
State DO authority for licence Improvement notice.




Step 1: Go for Licence Improvement notice and click on send new improvement
notice for Licence.
3.User manual of Pay penalty for FBO:-

Step 0: First Open the web browser and search for FoSCoS Web portal and click on
login businesses and login from FBO end.




Step 1: Go for Pay penalty in FBO end it have two options pay penalty Licence and
pay penalty registration.
Step 2: Go for pay penalty Licence you can view penalty log and receipt.




Step 3: Go for pay penalty Registration you can view penalty log and receipt.
User manual of Confirm penalty for State RA authority:-

Step 0: First Open the web browser and search for FoSCoS Web portal and click on
login Authorities and click on confirm penalty side menu under processing of
registration.

Step 1:Filling all the required data in text box and go for search and confirm penalty
and add.




User manual of Confirm penalty for State DO authority:-

Step 0: First Open the web browser and search for FoSCoS Web portal and click on
login Authorities and click on confirm penalty side menu under processing of Licence.

Step 1:Filling all the required data in text box and go for search and confirm penalty
and add.
User manual of Confirm penalty for central authority:-

Step 0: First Open the web browser and search for FoSCoS Web portal and click on
login Authorities and click on confirm penalty side menu under processing of Licence
and processing of registration.

Step 1:Filling all the required data in text box and go for search and confirm penalty
and add.
