Food Safety and
Compliance
System (FoSCoS)
Guidance Document
FSSAI

Version 1.0
March 2020
                                                                                                FoSCoS Guidance Document



Table of Contents


Disclaimer .......................................................................................................................... 1
1.        Background ............................................................................................................. 2
2.        Purpose of the Document ...................................................................................... 3
3.        Food Safety and Compliance System (FoSCoS) .................................................. 4
     3.1.      Introduction ......................................................................................................... 4
     3.2.      Objective of FoSCoS application......................................................................... 4
     3.3.      What are the improved features of FoSCoS? ..................................................... 4
4.        Processes defined for FoSCoS application.......................................................... 6
     4.1.      Process flow to log in on FoSCoS application ..................................................... 6
     4.2.      Process flows designated for Food Business Operators (FBOs) ........................ 7
          4.2.1. Process flow for Guest login as Petty FBO ..................................................... 7
          4.2.2. Process followed to submit a new application (Registration/ License) ............ 8
          4.2.3. FBO Dashboard .............................................................................................. 9
          4.2.4. Process to be followed for Renewal of an application ................................... 10
          4.2.5. Process followed to submit Modification request .......................................... 11
          4.2.6. Process followed for Surrender/ transfer....................................................... 12
     4.3.      Process flows designated for Designated Officers (DOs) ................................. 13
          4.3.1. Process flow to facilitate application requests submitted by FBOs ............... 13
          4.3.2. Process flow to facilitate request submitted for Modifications ....................... 14
          4.3.3. Process flow to facilitate renewal request ..................................................... 15
     4.4.      Process flows designated for Food Safety Officers (FSOs) .............................. 16
          4.4.1. Process flow for FSO to use inspection module ........................................... 16
5.        Change in methodology of licensing for manufacturers................................... 17
     5.1.      Background ....................................................................................................... 17
     5.2.      Introduction of Product Selection Approach in FoSCoS .................................... 17
          5.2.1. Key Features ................................................................................................ 17
          5.2.2. Brief description of changes.......................................................................... 18
     5.3.      Transition from previous licenses to new standardized product licenses .......... 19
6.          Frequently asked questions (FAQ) .................................................................... 20
     6.1.      FoSCoS Application .......................................................................................... 20
     6.2.      Methodology of Licensing for Manufacturers based on Standardization products
               23
Annexure-A ...................................................................................................................... 31
                                                                          FoSCoS Guidance Document



A. Features relevant to all users i.e. FBO, DOs/ RAs and FSOs ............................... 31
B. Features relevant to Food Business Operators (FBOs)......................................... 31
C. Features relevant to Designated Officers (DOs) .................................................... 32
D. Features relevant to Food Safety Officers (FSOs) ................................................ 33
                                                                FoSCoS Guidance Document



Disclaimer


The guidance document is intended for the use of officers of FSSAI, food safety
department of States/ UTs and Food Business Operators who shall be using the FoSCoS
application. This document provides an overview of the application functions and features
along with policy or regulatory aspects. This document, however, does not supersede any
direction, official orders or regulations as issued by FSSAI. Furthermore, the guidance
document shall not be considered valid for any legal redressal or as evidence in any legal
proceeding. This document is only for guiding users on FoSCoS application by providing
general information that may be helpful in using the application.       This document is
expected to be updated from time to time, please check the latest version before use.

In case any error or omission is noted, please bring it to the notice of FoSCoS team
on foscos-hq@fssai.gov.in for rectification.




                                                                                    Page | 1
                                                              FoSCoS Guidance Document



1.Background


 FSSAI had earlier implemented a Food Licensing and Registration System (FLRS) - an
 online application to provide licensing and registration functionality. FLRS application
 enabled the process for FBOs to submit registration/ license applications related to all
 food businesses and further supported the processing of these applications by the
 Central/ State licensing authorities. FLRS has been in place from past 9 years. Over
 the years multiple enhancements and modifications have been done to enhance the
 usability of application.

 Having observed certain performance challenges and business process limitations in
 FLRS, FSSAI recognized the need for an upgrade which led to development of a new
 application - Food Safety and Compliance System (FoSCoS). During development
 of FoSCoS, care has been taken to ensure that most of it is similar to FLRS application
 in functionality and process flows to the extent possible while making it more user
 friendly and also improving its system performance. FoSCoS is built on open source
 platform, has a new and advanced User Interface, is intuitive, computationally powerful
 and technically superior to FLRS.




                                                                                   Page | 2
                                                              FoSCoS Guidance Document



2.Purpose of the Document


 The purpose of the document is to enable and provide guidance to our primary users
 i.e. Food Business Operators (FBOs), Designated Officers (DOs) and Food Safety
 Officer (FSOs) about the newly launched application i.e. Food and Safety Compliance
 System (FoSCoS). This will also further help the users in transition from our legacy
 application FLRS to FoSCoS from business perspective. FSSAI is providing this
 guidance document to provide an overall understanding of the new system and
 describe the key application functions which would be used to apply and process the
 Registration/ License applications. Please note that this document does not replace the
 detailed User Manuals being provided with the application.




                                                                                  Page | 3
                                                                FoSCoS Guidance Document



3.Food Safety and Compliance System (FoSCoS)


3.1. Introduction

FoSCoS- Food Safety and Compliance System is a unified application built on open
source platform, with enhanced features, easily configurable and has architectural
capability to meet the envisaged functionalities and modules. The application is designed
in such a way that it has interoperable capabilities to integrate and merge with other
FSSAI applications for providing solutions to all kinds of food businesses on single
platform.



3.2. Objective of FoSCoS application

Overall objectives of FoSCoS are as follows:

   Transform from the present FLRS which is only a licensing platform to a central food
     safety compliance regulatory platform.
   Build a technically advanced integrated application to achieve interoperability with
     other applications, capable of higher user traffic, and has potential for future
     upgrades and functionalities.
   Enhance user performance of the application and make application process simpler
     and efficient to promote ease of doing business amongst FBOs.
   Achieve minimal physical documentation and streamline business process flows for
     FBOs for online application.
   Achieve and enable the application to have standardized product approach rather
     than text box approach for manufacturers.
   Enable application to seed business specific details such as CIN No., PAN No. and
     GST No. to ensure 360o profiling and validation of FBOs.



3.3. What are the improved features of FoSCoS?

To meet the above objective, process flows and application features of FoSCoS have
been enhanced and upgraded for better user experience. Following are the improved key
features of FoSCoS:


                                                                                   Page | 4
                                                                 FoSCoS Guidance Document



   Upgradation of hardware and software to ensure enhanced processing speed, least
    possible downtime, higher user traffic capability and potential for future upgrades.
   Scalable architecture to meet future upgrades, new modules for additional
    functionalities and integration with other IT systems of FSSAI. FoSCoS shall in future
    be the one-stop food safety compliance portal.
   Paradigm shift in licensing approach from Text Box approach to Standardized
    Product approach for manufacturers.
   The Home page has been re-designed to make it more user friendly, intuitive and
    smart search option for standardized products and eligibility search for any food
    business is given.
   New online feature for filling annual returns through FoSCoS application.
   FoSCoS has been integrated with FoSCoRIS to ensure seamless operations. FBOs
    will have access to inspections reports.
   Rationalization of required documents KoB wise instead of complete set of 29
    documents indicated previously in FLRS application.
   Many document-based declarations revised to a check box online declaration.
   Clear segregation of KoBs in FoSCoS application. For e.g. nutraceuticals and novel
    food category has been added as a separate category of business under
    manufacturing.
   FoSCoS application has been enabled to seed business specific details such as PAN
    no., CIN no. and GST numbers to ensure 3600 profiling and validation of FBO.


Whilst above features are comprehensive, detailed list of key features for FBO, DO and
FSO are attached for reference in Annexure-A.




                                                                                      Page | 5
                                                                   FoSCoS Guidance Document



4.Processes defined for FoSCoS application


Below section outlines the process flows diagrammatically for various business functions
as performed by FoSCoS users i.e. FBOs, DOs and FSOs. The dark colored boxes within
process flow represent the new features added in FoSCoS. While this section intends to
familiarize the user with FoSCoS application, however for detailed functionality it is
recommended to refer the FoSCoS user manuals. Detailed user manual can be
downloaded at https://foscos.fssai.gov.in/user-manual.

4.1. Process flow to log in on FoSCoS application
Following details should be referred for use of FoSCoS application:

   User credentials i.e. ID and Password: Credentials shall be SAME as used for log-in
     on FLRS application.
   However, if the credentials are subsequently changed in FLRS, replication lag of few
     hours will be observed in FoSCoS or vice versa.
   FoSCoS URL: https://foscos.fssai.gov.in/



FBO can either create sign-up using unique mobile ID and email ID or use same login
credentials as used for FLRS application for login.

Refer below the process flow to login for all user types.



                                  Navigate to
                             www.foscos.fssai.gov.in



                                Login with FLRS
  FBO/ DO/ FSO
                                  credentials



                                                            Click Forgot
                                                                               Reset your
                                 Login Successful?     No   Username/
                                                                               password
                                                             password

                                        Yes



                                Dashboard page


                                                                                         Page | 6
                                                                       FoSCoS Guidance Document



4.2. Process flows designated for Food Business Operators
    (FBOs)
4.2.1. Process flow for Guest login as Petty FBO


Petty FBO login facility is the new feature incorporated in the FoSCoS application. This
feature has been enabled for small businesses like hawkers, roadside vendors, etc who
are being encouraged to apply for registrations. This facility enables Petty FBO Login with
OTP validation through phone number or email address without creating sign-up details or
a password. On Login the Petty FBO shall have access to only Registration related
functionalities which means License related functionalities shall not be available unlike the
case of regular FBO Login.



                                 Navigate to www.foscos.fssai.gov.in




         Petty FBO              Apply for Registration Certificate
                               (Petty Food Business Operators)



                                Verify OTP on Email ID or Mobile of
                                              choice




                                  Apply for New Registration
                                          Page opens




                                   Fill application for Registration




                                         Submit Application




                                                                                         Page | 7
                                                                                          FoSCoS Guidance Document



4.2.2. Process followed to submit a new application (Registration/ License)


The process flow of submitting application for registration/ license is similar to FLRS with
minimal changes in overall functionality however efforts has been put in place to make
process more efficient and productive. Some of key highlights are:


 Revision of questions asked from FBO regarding eligibility of head office. Head office
   has been added as a separate KoB.
 Only KoB wise documentation is required to be uploaded along with application.



                     Dashboard Page




             Click License/ Registration
                      in left menu




     Click Apply for New License/ Registration




                                                                                      Tip: Nutraceuticals and Novel food are
                                                                 Select Head office   visible under manufacturers KoB
                  Head office declared?                     No
                                                                        as KoB




                            Yes


    Select appropriate kind of business applicable as per
               food Business to be conducted




                       Fill Form-B




                    Submit Application




                                                                                                                      Page | 8
                                                                                                FoSCoS Guidance Document



4.2.3. FBO Dashboard



Dashboard is the default landing page once the FBO has logged in. The new dashboard is
interactive and intuitive specifically built to provide updates to the submitted applications
for both licensing and registration. For easy reference, new actions and feature has been
highlighted in colored box. Some of the new features of dashboard in FoSCoS application
are:


        FBO can view application status by clicking on tab “Submitted applications”.
        FBO can view list of all licenses and registration issued in past.




                                Dashboard page


                                                                                                             Reverted Applications
                                                                   License/ Registration
                                                      Yes                                                       by Authority
                        Application reverted with
                        comments (Alert in Red)?
                                                               Tip: You have 30 days to
                                                               respond on reverted
                                      No
                                                               applications. Failing to do so
                                                               would result in auto                         View Remarks and click
                                                               application rejection.                          Proceed to update
                                Dashboard Tabs                                                                    application



        Incomplete                 Submitted                                             Issued             Submit updated application
                                                            Applications
Application to complete          applications                                    to view the applications
                                                            reverted by
 or delete your previously      to view details of                                 for which license is
                                                            Authorities
   created applications       submitted application                                     generated



                                                                           Tip: Mail yourself
                                                                           the license using
                                                                           Send Mail button
                                                                           under the Issued
                                                                           tab




                                                                                                                         Page | 9
                                                                          FoSCoS Guidance Document



4.2.4. Process to be followed for Renewal of an application


FBOs can submit request to renew their existing issued licenses/ registrations under the
Renewal tab. Renew your license window opens 120 days prior to date of expiry of your
license. Hence, it is ideal that renewal application is submitted between time frame of 120
days and 30 days before the date of expiry of license. For e.g. If expiry of your license is
31/03/2020, Thus, the ideal time of application for renewal should be between 02/12/2020
and 01/03/2020.




        Click Renewal in left menu




                                          Tip: You can apply for renewal of your license as early as 120
        Click Apply for Renewal of        days but atleast 30 days before license expiry date. INR 100
           License/ Registration          per day is charged as late fees starting 30 days before license
                                          expiry date.




                                          Tip: If the license/ Registration has expired already, it will
       Select the license to be renewed
                                          not be listed here




         Submit renewal application




                                                                                                 Page | 10
                                                                         FoSCoS Guidance Document



4.2.5. Process followed to submit Modification request


FBOs can submit request for modification in the existing issued licenses/ registrations
under the modification tab. Three types of modifications are processed i.e. Form-C, Non-
Form-C modifications and Change of product category to standardized products for
manufacturers only. Non form-c modifications refers to changes such as change in contact
details, change in supporting documents submitted at the time of obtaining fresh license,
etc. Process flow is given for reference.




       Click Modification in left menu




          Apply for Modification in
           License/ Registration




         Select the license to be modified




                                              Tip: Form C modifications are the details of
         Select the type of Modification      your business which are printed on the license
                                              i.e. Company name, Kind of business etc.




                 Is it a Form C                        Submit Modification
                                             No
                   modification?                    application without any fees



                       Yes


      Submit Modification application with
                     fees




                                                                                           Page | 11
                                                                       FoSCoS Guidance Document



4.2.6. Process followed for Surrender/ transfer


FBOs can submit the request for surrender/ transfer of license/ registration by clicking on
tab “Surender”. FBOs shall see the complete list details of all licenses/ registration issued
in past. Once selected, FBO may proceed to confirm submission of such request using
action button.



                                            Tip: To get duplicate copy of license, click Send
          Click Surrender/ Transfer         Mail button under Issued tab on Dashboard
                  in left menu




      Click Apply for Surrender/ Transfer
            of License/ Registration




     Surrender using Surrender button          Transfer using Transfer button
           against relevant license                against relevant license




                 Submit request




                                                                                                Page | 12
                                                                                                     FoSCoS Guidance Document



4.3. Process flows designated for Designated Officers (DOs)

4.3.1. Process flow to facilitate application requests submitted by FBOs


The default landing page after login is Dashboard. DO can view stage-wise activity status
of all applications submitted by the FBOs in their jurisdiction.

  Application for new license received by DO




          Stage 1: Check Jurisdiction




          Stage 1: Check Jurisdiction




                                                     Reject application/ Send back to
        Offline fee receipts correct?
                                                            FBO for editing


                    Yes

      Send to Stage 2 Document
                                                     Send back to FBO for editing
            Securitization


                                                                                                                                        No
                    Yes

                                                                              Send application for
                                                                              clarification to FBO

            Documents correct?                             No
                Stage-2                                                                       Tip: FSO now has the provision to
                                                                                              revert Application in case edits are
                                                                                              required in Form-B

                    Yes


                                                                                    FSO conducts                                        No
                                                                                                              Forward to DO
                                                                                      inspection
           Inspection Required?                  Allocate Inspection
                                           Yes                                      (FoSCoRIS or
                 Stage-3                               to FSO
                                                                                      Manually)




                                                                                                           Scrutinize Inspection
                                                        Yes
                                                                                                         Reports by DO. Satisfied?
                    No

                                                                                                                    No


                                                                                                        Re-inspection & Assign FSO


           Generate License                                                                                 Tip: DO has the provision to
                                                                                                            reassign the application for re-
                                                                                                            inspection if deemed necessary




                                                                                                                                     Page | 13
                                                                                                FoSCoS Guidance Document



4.3.2. Process flow to facilitate request submitted for Modifications


There are two types of modifications submitted by FBOs i.e. Form „C‟ modifications and
Non-Form „C‟ modifications. The process to facilitate application for modification submitted
by FBOs remains similar to FLRS process and is given below for reference:



                                       Tip: Form C modifications are the details which are
     Application for new license/
                                       printed on the license i.e. Company name, Kind of
        Modification by FBO
                                       business etc.




                                                     Scrutinize Non Form C
         Form C modification           No                                                         Accept
                                                          modification


                                                                                                  Reject




                                                Reject application/ Send back to
      Offline fee receipts correct?    No
                                                       FBO for editing


                  Yes

     Send to Stage 2 Document
                                                Send back to FBO for editing
           Securitization


                                                                                                                                   No
                  Yes

                                                                         Send application for
                                                                         clarification to FBO

         Documents correct?                           No
             Stage-2                                                                     Tip: FSO now has the provision to
                                                                                         revert Application in case edits are
                                                                                         required in Form-B

                  Yes


                                                                                                                                   No

         Inspection Required?               Allocate Inspection                FSO conducts
                                      Yes                                                                  Forward to DO
               Stage-3                            to FSO                        inspection




                                                                                                      Scrutinize Inspection
                                                    Yes
                                                                                                    Reports by DO. Satisfied?
                  No

                                                                                                                No


                                                                                                   Re-inspection & Assign FSO


         Generate License                                                                              Tip: DO has the provision to
                                                                                                       reassign the application for re-
                                                                                                       inspection if deemed necessary




                                                                                                                                Page | 14
                                                                                               FoSCoS Guidance Document



4.3.3. Process flow to facilitate renewal request


The process flow of a DO for the renewal workflow is similar to a New license approval
except that jurisdiction check is not required. Please note that Late fees may have been
levied by the system depending on the date of renewal application.


          Renewal by FBO




                                               Reject application/ Send back to
     Offline fee receipts correct?    No
                                                      FBO for editing


                 Yes

    Send to Stage 2 Document
                                               Send back to FBO for editing
          Securitization


                                                                                                                                  No
                 Yes

                                                                        Send application for
                                                                        clarification to FBO

        Documents correct?                           No
            Stage-2                                                                     Tip: FSO now has the provision to
                                                                                        revert Application in case edits are
                                                                                        required in Form-B

                 Yes


                                                                                                                                  No

        Inspection Required?               Allocate Inspection                FSO conducts
                                     Yes                                                                Forward to DO
              Stage-3                            to FSO                        inspection




                                                                                                     Scrutinize Inspection
                                                  Yes
                                                                                                   Reports by DO. Satisfied?
                 No

                                                                                                              No


                                                                                                  Re-inspection & Assign FSO


        Generate License                                                                              Tip: DO has the provision to
                                                                                                      reassign the application for re-
                                                                                                      inspection if deemed necessary




                                                                                                                               Page | 15
                                                                                FoSCoS Guidance Document



4.4. Process flows designated for Food Safety Officers (FSOs)

4.4.1. Process flow for FSO to use inspection module


FoSCoS has been integrated with FoSCoRIS to ensure seamless operations. Thus, FSO
will be enabled to submit his inspection report directly on FoSCoS application. On login,
the FBO shall also have access to view the inspection reports and comments made by the
FSOs.


                                        Allocated Inspections in
                                                left menu



                                             Acknowledge
                                                                                   Reject with Remarks
                                             Inspection
                                                                          Tip
                                                                           FSO can reject an inspection incase it
                                                                             has been wrongly assigned or due to
                                           Accept and choose
                                                                             unforeseen circumstances
                                            Inspection Date
                                                                           After initiating inspection, listing of
                                                                             inspection will be moved under tab
                                                                              On-going inspections
                       Start Random
                                             Start Inspection
                         Inspection




                  No                       Is FoSCoRIS in use?




  Physical checklist used to          FoSCoRIS app used to conduct
     conduct inspection                      inspection




                                       Inspection Report visible on   Tip: With FoSCoRIS now integrated, the
   Upload findings on FoSCoS
                                         FoSCoS/ Done manually        inspection report is also available in FoSCoS



                                                   Yes



                                             Forward to DO




                                                                                                            Page | 16
                                                                  FoSCoS Guidance Document



5. Change in methodology of licensing for manufacturers


5.1. Background

In the Food Licensing and Registration System (FLRS) the process followed for licensing
for manufacturers is: -

      An applicant selects the food category system, drilled down to 4-digit level.
      Then the applicant inputs the food product he proposes to manufacture, in a text
       box.
      Licensing authority while processing the application checks if the declared product
       belongs to the stated category and is standardized as per Food Safety and
       Standards Regulation (FSSR).

The Licensing Authority, after other checks he needs to exercise approves the application.
Expected output is a licensed product which is standardized. However, the description is
subjective. It may be specific to the product/ manufacturer or even be generic or be a
variant. If not standardized, application needs to be submitted under Proprietary Food or
non- specified Food.



5.2. Introduction of Product Selection Approach in FoSCoS

5.2.1. Key Features

      The new approach is only for manufacturers of food products.
      For Category 99 products such as additives/processing aids/enzymes etc., the text
       box approach will be continued as in FLRS under “Substances added to Food”
      There are few products standardized under FSSR, for which no specific category
       has been allocated, these products will be listed under a new category 100 (only for
       the purpose of licensing)
      In case of non-standardized food products, FBO will need to apply for “Proprietary
       Food”, “Non specified Food” or “Food or Health Supplements, Nutraceuticals etc”
       as applicable.




                                                                                       Page | 17
                                                                    FoSCoS Guidance Document



5.2.2. Brief description of changes


      The new system is based on trust and self-regulation approach. An FBO opts and
       selects a standardized product and his license is approved for the same. The
       license approval means that the FBO can manufacture only those standardized
       products which are covered by the description as under in the FSSR. The onus is
       on the FBO to manufacture only products which are Standardized with the
       description FSSR.
      The linguistic meaning of the Standardized product list is NOT to be relied upon.
       Standardized products means any product whose standards are prescribed in in
       “Food Safety and Standards (Food Products Standards and Food Additives)
       Regulation,   2011”,    “Food    Safety   and    Standards     (Health   Supplements,
       Nutraceuticals, Food for Special Dietary Use, Food for Special Medical Purpose,
       Functional Food and Novel Food) Regulations, 2016” and “Food Safety and
       Standards (Alcoholic Beverages) Regulation, 2018”.
      For manufacturers of Standardized food products, the methodology is being
       changed from the text box approach to a Standardized product listing approach.
       FoSCoS is built on food category system as in FLRS with category 1-16.
      There is a 3-level structure being followed in FoSCoS for Manufacturing, Repacking
       and Relabeller for selection of food products i.e.
          o Level 1: Main Category
              Example: 7 Bakery Product
          o Level 2: Sub-Categories forming part of the main category
              Example: 7.1 Bread and ordinary bakery wares and mixes
          o    Level 3: Name of Standardized product (select)
              Example: Bread

      The listed products include the types/sub types of products falling under same
       FSSR number.
       Example:
          o 5.1.3 Chocolate: In this all other Standardized products detailed under FSSR
              covered. i.e whether Milk Chocolate, Milk Covering Chocolate, Plain
              Chocolate, Plain Covering Chocolate, White Chocolate, Blended chocolate.
          o 2.9.1 Spice like Caraway (Siahjira): all its types Standardized like (Siahjira),
              Caraway Black (Siahjira), Caraway (Siahjira) are considered to be covered
              under description.
                                                                                      Page | 18
                                                                   FoSCoS Guidance Document



         o 2.1.7 Cream and Malai: All types (Reconstituted cream, Recombined cream,
            Prepared creams etc.) and sub type (Pre-packaged liquid cream, Whipping
            cream etc. ) are under description Cream.
     On some occasions, the description of food products has been slightly changed
      from the heading used in FSSR, primarily because the food category of types and
      subtypes of the products were distinct.
      Example:
         o Separate Food Categories are specified for two variants of Pastas and
            Noodles i.e 6.4.2: Macaroni Products (Dried) and 6.4.3 Macaroni Products
            (pre-cooked)
         o Culinary Sauce and Pastes bifurcated into 12.6.2 (chilli sauce, fruit sauce
            etc.) & 12.6.3 ( culinary paste)
     In some cases, the variants (types and subtypes) of Standardized products are
      listed separately, thereby requiring specific endorsement on license for each of
      them. The same is done owing to administrative reasons keeping the need of
      licensing authority and sensitivity of the food products or its nature and source in
      perspective.
      Eg. All refined edible vegetable oils are listed as individual refined vegetable oil.



5.3. Transition from previous licenses to new standardized product
  licenses

     Provision for modification in existing license to choose from standardized product
      for manufacturers has been provided.
     No modification fee is required to be paid for the same. The transition will be
      allowed with modification fee upto 31st December 2020 as per FSSAI order number
      15(31)2020/FoSCoS/RCD/FSSAI dated 28th May 2020.
     The renewals are not linked with modification of License. However, renewal without
      modification of licence based on list of Standardized products, shall be allowed for
      one year only.




                                                                                        Page | 19
                                                                   FoSCoS Guidance Document




6.      Frequently asked questions (FAQ)


6.1. FoSCoS Application

Q1. What is the user ID and Password of FoSCoS application?

     Answer: Login credentials of the FoSCoS application shall be same as FLRS. New
     FBO can also create login credentials using sign-up option.



Q2. What if I am using both the applications i.e. FLRS and FoSCoS in the transition
     phase and change the credentials in one of the applications. Would this change
     be implemented for both applications?

     Answer: Yes, change will be implemented in both the applications however user will
     observe the replication time lag of few hours in the subsequent application.



Q3. How to submit annual return online on FoSCoS?

     Answer: FoSCoS has new online feature for submitting Annual returns. FBO can click
     on tab “Annual returns”, fill the prescribed format and upload required documents and
     click on submit.



Q4. What if FBO does not remember both User ID and Password for login?

     Answer: FBO can retrieve user ID and password by submitting following information:

         Signup for a new login, and provide the new login

         Request Application on company letter head duly signed by Authorised Signatory

         Copy of License/Registration/Application

         ID proof of authorized signatory.

         Any other document proving ownership of FSSAI license/ registration.


                                                                                     Page | 20
                                                                  FoSCoS Guidance Document



   All above documents to be submitted electronically via email (from authorized email ID
   to enforcement1@fssai.gov.in or in physical manner at FSSAI HQ. If the credentials
   are verified and request approved then the FSSAI license details will be shifted to the
   new user login provided.



Q5. What are the new KoBs added to FoSCoS?

   Answer: Head office, Nutraceuticals and Non specified/Novel food for manufacturers



Q6. Can FBO view his inspection history?

   Answer: Yes, FBO can view inspection report by clicking on tab “view inspection
   history”.



Q7. How to check your eligibility criteria of your food business?

   Answer: FBO can use Search option “Eligibility of your food business” provided on the
   home page to view details pertinent to KoB/ criteria/ license/ registration and fee per
   annum.



Q8. How to search standardized food products and KoBs?

   Answer: FBO can use Search option “FSSAI Standardized products” provided on the
   home page.



Q9. How many documents required to be uploaded by FBO for issuance of license?

   Answer: Only documentation pertinent to the selected KoB for license application is
   required to be uploaded. However FoSCoS has provision for additional documents
   such as NoC from CGWA, NoC from local bodies, Water test Report, Vehicle RC,
   FSMS Plan, and any other document mandated by state government by way of an
   official order.




                                                                                       Page | 21
                                                                 FoSCoS Guidance Document



Q10. Are there any agents or consultants authorized by FSSAI to submit application
   on behalf on FBO?

   Answer: No, there are no consultants or agents authorized to fill application on behalf
   of FBO however FBO can take help of Food Safety Mitra (FSM) for the same.



Q11. Difference between Form-C and Non Form-C modifications?

   Answer: Form-C modifications refers to change in business information details as
   printed on the license such as Company name, change of address (within district), Kind
   of Business, etc. with applicable fees of INR 1000 plus differential amount of annual
   fee of license in case of upgradation.

   Non Form-C modification refers to change in information not printed on license such as
   correspondence address, contact information, etc.



Q12. Does FBO need to re-submit the application fees if the application is rejected
   by the DO?

   Answer: Yes, FBO is required to re-submit the application fees in case of rejection.



Q13. How can FBO generate duplicate copy of license?

   Answer: On the FBO‟s dashboard, click on “Issued” tab. Click “Send Mail” button
   against the relevant license.



Q14. Does DO need to review all information given in the application once the
   application is sent back to FBO for editing?

   Answer: No, FBO will only be able to edit the details for options as selected by DO
   whilst sending back the application for editing.



Q15. Can the Designated officer (DO) re-assign the application to FSO once already
   assigned to a FSO?


                                                                                     Page | 22
                                                                 FoSCoS Guidance Document



   Answer: Yes, DO can re-assign the application to FSO for inspection or even after
   inspection for any further processing.

Q16. Some states are asking for additional documents which are not listed in online
licensing portal , where to upload these documents?

   Answer: On document upload page, there will be a option of “Other documents” under
   that upload these additional documents.



   Q17. Where can I upload NOC from CGWA, NOC from State Pollution Control
   Board, BIS certificate etc.?

   Answer: On document upload page, there exists a facility of “Other documents” under
   which additional documents can be uploaded.

   Q18. Is it mandatory to upload details of training under FoSTaC, Food Safety
   Mitra etc.?

   Answer: It is presently not mandatory. However, we encourage applicants to declare
   details.




Note: For other queries related to licensing, please refer to FAQs on licensing/
registrations at https://www.fssai.gov.in/cms/licensingregulationfaq.php




6.2. Methodology of Licensing for Manufacturers based on
    Standardization products

Q1. What are standardized food products?

   Answer: Those products whose standards are specified under in “Food Safety and
   Standards (Food Products Standards and Food Additives) Regulation, 2011”,” Food
   Safety and Standards (Health Supplements, Nutraceuticals, Food for Special Dietary
   Use, Food for Special Medical Purpose, Functional Food and Novel Food) Regulations,
   2016” and “Food Safety and Standards (Alcoholic Beverages) Regulation, 2018”.




                                                                                   Page | 23
                                                               FoSCoS Guidance Document



Q2. What should FBO do, if the product he wants to manufacture does not display
   in any category in dropdown?

   Answer: In such cases, if FBO does not find the products in the list of Standardized
   food products, then he needs to apply either in proprietary food or nutraceuticals or
   non-specified/novel food whichever is applicable.



Q3. General manufacturing kind of business is applicable for which food business
   operators?

   Answer: Those manufacturing products other than dairy, oil, meat, proprietary,
   nutraceutical, non-specified/novel food, are covered under “general manufacturing”.



Q4. I am doing business of catering, whether individual product need to be
   mentioned in the license/registration?

   Ans: No, only mention broad category of food products.



Q5. Is it mandatory for a milk product manufacturer to select kind of business dairy
   processing units, can’t they apply for general manufacturing?

   Answer: No, milk product manufacturer should take license under dairy processing
   kind of business only. FBOs manufacturing products other than oil, meat, dairy,
   nutraceuticals, Proprietary food, non-specified/novel food can take license under
   general manufacturing.



Q6. Are there any products for which standards exists and are yet not listed on
   FoSCoS for grant of License?

   Answer: Yes, Radiation Processed Foods, Gluten Free Foods and Special dietary
   food with low sodium content are not listed. In such case, FBOs need to select the
   corresponding Food Category of the food product. E.g in case Fruits and Vegetables
   are irradiated FBO can select. 4.2. Also, in such cases the standards for the same
   (process food standard) need to be complied additionally to the standards for the food
   item.

                                                                                   Page | 24
                                                                FoSCoS Guidance Document




Q7. Why a new category No. 100 is created though the products are standardized?

   Answer: Some of standardized products are not currently mapped with any food
   category system code for example pan masala, colostrum, royal jelly. These are listed
   here. The category is only for the purpose of licensing. Whenever the mapping is
   decided and notified, the product shall be shown in relevant category.



Q8. My product falls under the product category 15 and 16, but I am not able to find
   the products under the said category in Standardized flow under manufacturer
   KoB. What should I do and where i need to apply?

   Answer: In category no. 15 and 16 presently there are no Standardized food products.
   Hence, you need to apply under the Proprietary Food category, if applicable. Eg ready
   to eat packages.



Q9. My product neither falls under Standardized food, nor proprietary food and
   substance added to food, where do I go and where need to apply?

   Answer: If your product does not fall under Standardized food or proprietary food or
   substances added to food, in such you need to obtain approval of such product and
   apply under non-specified food.



Q10. Whether product selection methodology is also available for proprietary, non-
   specified food and nutraceuticals/supplements?

   Answer: Product selection method is available only in case of Standardized products
   under “Food Safety and Standards (Food Products Standards and Food Additives)
   Regulation, 2011” and “Food Safety and Standards (Alcoholic Beverages) Regulation,
   2018” except for Substances added to food. For proprietary, non- specified food and
   nutraceuticals/supplements the text box approach as in FLRS continues.



Q11. Whether FBOs can manufacture variants (types and subtypes) of a licensed
   product?

                                                                                  Page | 25
                                                                 FoSCoS Guidance Document



   Answer: Yes, variants (types and subtypes) of Food products so licensed can be
   manufactured if they are as per Standards specified under Food Safety and Standards
   Regulations. e.g all variants of Chocolate (i.e milk chocolate, milk covering chocolate,
   plain chocolate, plain covering chocolate, blended chocolate etc) as specified under
   sub-regulation 2.7.4 of FSSR can be manufactured by FBO, if licensed for Chocolate.
   Please note only variants (types and subtypes) of products for which standards exist
   can be manufactured. Any deviation needs to be applied under other suitable
   categories such as Proprietary, Health Supplements & Nutraceuticals and non-
   specified/novel food, whichever applicable.



Q12. Why Buttermilk is given, in addition to Drinks based on fermented milk?

   Answer: Separate Food Category System are specified for Buttermilk (1.1.2 ) and
   Drinks based on fermented milk (1.1.2), hence separately listed.



Q13. I am manufacturing fancy breads, milk breads etc which category should I
   select?

   Answer: All types of breads which are covered under Food Safety and Standards
   (Food Products Standards and Food Additives) Regulation, 2011 will fall under
   “Bread”. Else you will need to apply under Proprietary or non-specified food category.



Q14. I am in to the business of storage and sale, Whether i have to mention
   individual product by select option?

   Answer: No, product selection methodology is applicable only for manufacturers, rest
   all categories will have option of broad food category selection, as in FLRS.



Q15. Drop down option to select additives is not given even they are Standardized,
   reasons why?

   Answer: There is a long list of additives for which standards are available and many
   more are being developed. Presently for manufacturer of category 99 “Substance
   added to Food”, the text box approach will continue.


                                                                                    Page | 26
                                                              FoSCoS Guidance Document



Q16. I am manufacturing bees wax, in which category I should apply”?

   Answer: For bees wax, apply in category no. 99



Q17. I am manufacturing decaffeinated beverage, which food product category
   should I select?

   Answer: All types of coffee which are covered under 2.10.2 of Food Safety and
   Standards (Food Products Standards and Food Additives) Regulation, 2011 will fall
   under “Coffee”. Hence apply for product “coffee”.



Q18. Why are hard and soft candy separately listed?

   Answer: Hard and Soft candy are separately listed due to different food category
   system.



Q19. I am manufacturing fruit pickle, vegetable pickle, mixed pickle, shall I take just
   pickle in my license?

   Answer: No, these pickles are classified under different food category system so
   separate selection to be made.



Q20. I am manufacturing low fat cream, shall I take just cream in my license?

   Answer: Yes, “Cream ” will cover all types and sub types of cream including low fat
   cream.



Q21. I am manufacturing pre-cooked pasta product, which category will be
   applicable for me?

   Answer Separate Food Categories are specified for two variants of Pastas and
   Noodles i.e 6.4.2: Macaroni Products (Dried) and 6.4.3 Macaroni Products (pre
   cooked).




                                                                                 Page | 27
                                                               FoSCoS Guidance Document



Q22. How to align food products in my license/registration with Standardized
   products under FoSCoS, in such cases whether modification fee is required or
   not?

   Answer. Provision for modification of license to choose from Standardized products for
   manufacturers has been provided. No modification fee is required to be paid for the
   same. The modification to Standardized product (product migration) needs to be done
   before 30th September 2020.



Q23. Renewal of my licence is due, can modification to Standardized products be
   done along with renewal application?

   Answer. No, renewal and modification process are separate. In case, renewal is
   imminent, please get renewal before modification. The modification to Standardized
   product (product migration) needs to be done before 30th September 2020.



Q24. I am holding license for manufacturing a food product, is any modification
   required in case of any change in ingredient and additive in Standardized food
   product category?

   Answer. In case the changed ingredient and additive are as per standards prescribed
   for the food products and the new food product is as per standards (already endorsed
   on the licence), no modification of license is required.



Q25. I am a food business operator holding manufacturer license. What steps do I
   need to take during migration from old licensing system to new system
   (FoSCoS)?

   Answer: Existing FSSAI License holders for manufacturing kind of business needs to
   visit the portal before 30th September 2020. A facility under “modification” has been
   provided to modify the license to choose from Standardized food products. No
   modification fee shall be charged for the same until other details of the license kept
   same which necessitated change in fee structure. Further, if you do not find your
   products in the Standardized list, please refer below:



                                                                                  Page | 28
                                                                 FoSCoS Guidance Document



   For Category 99 products such as additives/processing aids/enzymes etc., the text box
    approach will be continued as in FLRS.
   There are few products standardized under FSSR, for which no specific category have
    been allocated, these products will fall under broad category 100.
   In case of non-standardized food products, you shall apply for “Proprietary Food”, “Non
    specified Food” or “Health Supplements, Nutraceuticals etc” as applicable.

Q26. I am a food business operator, other than manufacturer. What steps do I need
    to take while migrating to new system (FoSCoS)?

    Answer. If you are a manufacturer, please refer to above answer. Food Businesses
    involved in kind of business other than manufacturers shall match the details of their
    license and/or application form submitted in earlier licensing system i.e FLRS. In case
    you find any mismatch or error please write us at foscos-helpline@fssai.gov.in or call
    us at Toll free Helpline number 1800112100.

Q27. What if I do not modify my license to Standardized products (for
    manufacturers)

    Answer: If within the specified period, the manufacturer doesn‟t get modification to
    Standardized product (product migration) the licensing authority may issue notice and
    proceed for cancellation of your license.




Q28. I am a food product manufacturer with a valid State license. While applying for
    modification to Standardized product (product migration) In case if it
    necessitates a change from State to Central license. What to do?

    Answer: A new Central license will need to be obtained and the previous State license
    may be surrendered.




Q29. I am having problems with FoSCoS. Whom can I approach for resolution of my
    problems?

    Answer: In case you have State license, for any guidance or difficultly you may contact
    your jurisdictional FSO/ DO, or the licensing helpdesk in the State or the Food Safety
    Commissioner in the State. In case you have a central license, you may approach
                                                                                    Page | 29
                                                            FoSCoS Guidance Document



FSSAI‟s Regional Office. You can also email at helpdesk-foscos@fssai.gov.in or call at
Toll free Helpline number 1800112100.




                                                                               Page | 30
                                                                       FoSCoS Guidance Document



Annexure-A


Detailed List of key features applicable to each type of user i.e. FBO, DO and FSOs is
segregated below for better understanding.

A. Features relevant to all users i.e. FBO, DOs/ RAs and FSOs

      Smart Homepage featuring:
              Text based intelligent Eligibility Search for businesses
              Text based intelligent Standardized Product Search
      Simpler login
              Unnecessary details not required
              Email, mobile verification through OTP
              Direct login facility only for registration purposes.
      Email ID and Mobile number is verified using unique OTP during sign-up (license
       generation).
      Intuitively designed unique tabs for tracking of applications, FBO search, application
       status and instructions for users to understand the application process flow.
      User shall be able to search for standardized food products and its details
      Functionality for searching of standardized food products is provided on home
       page.
      The new feature for FBO is also incorporated to search eligibility of any type of food
       business which is planned to be conducted.



B. Features relevant to Food Business Operators (FBOs)

   Enhanced and New features of the FoSCoS

      Home page and log-in screen has been made more interactive and intuitive.
      Separate guest login as “Petty FBO Log-in” for small business operators to apply for
       registrations using their mobile number and email IDs.
      Feature to submit annual returns online.
      Only KoB wise required set of documents will be shown to license applicant in
       FoSCoS instead of complete set of 29 documents.
      Separate KOB for head office is included for easy reference.

                                                                                         Page | 31
                                                                     FoSCoS Guidance Document



        FBO can view the inspection report as soon as inspection report is formulated by
         FSO.
        Improved dashboards for Licensing and Registering Authorities to view pendency of
         applications at different Stages.
        Improved and eased licensing procedure/ flow:
 o       Questions at the beginning of licensing application pertaining to Head Office omitted.
         Head Office is now made as a separate KoB.
 o       New KoB flow for products covered under Nutraceutical Regulations and products
         require Product Approval from FSSAI.
        Grouping of KoBs under „Other Business‟ is broken into logical groups. Now two
         group of KoBs have been introduced - Trade/Retail and Food Services
        New KOB listing page with more segregation in the KOB selection.
        Several declarations which earlier required document upload now converted to tick
         based online declarations. E.g. Declarations for FSMS, Repacking, General
         Conditions etc. have been converted to single declaration which applicant has to tick
         and declaration shall be printed on the application for future reference.
        Provision for capturing Food Product Category for Importers



 Features removed from FLRS

        KOB listing has been improvised such as Removal of KoB (Section 22 products –
         FBO holding PA/NOC from PA division FSSAI prior to the Hon'ble Supreme Court
         Judgment dated 19th Aug 2015)

        Process has been streamlined and irrelevant questions and documentation proof
         has been removed to ease the user for conducting business activity through
         FoSCoS. For eg: Removing of 03 questions related to Head Office to be asked by
         every FBO whether he is eligible for it or not and converted Head Office as separate
         KoB and Removing „Clarification incidents‟ tab meant for applications to be
         responded after improvement notice on inspection.

C. Features relevant to Designated Officers (DOs)

        DO can now view the application as per applicable stages of its processing.
         Further Menu items in DO dashboard have been rearranged for easily locating the
         daily tasks related to processing of applications.
        Feature to verify the zone list for FSO for their respective designated application.
                                                                                         Page | 32
                                                                  FoSCoS Guidance Document



     Application workflow for DO to review and send application to different stages
     Auto issuance of license in maximum 75 days after application submission
     The description of each bin/ tab is revised and made self-explanatory.
     Stage wise bifurcation enabling self-understanding for DO‟s leading to intuitive
      actions with minimal confusions
     Comprehensive search tool made available to every DO/ FSO limited to their area
      of jurisdiction to search the applications and licenses issued.


D. Features relevant to Food Safety Officers (FSOs)

     FoSCoRIS (Inspection System) integrated with FoSCoS to enable allocation of
      inspections, viewing of inspection report within the licensing system.
     OTP based Verification of Inspection Reports
     Instant availability of Inspection reports to FBOs.




                                                                                       Page | 33
     FoSCoS Guidance Document




Thank you




                       Page | 34
